 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1994 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1994 International Monetary Fund Price: US$70.00 (US$35.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-404-7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10,1994 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1994, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director iff ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote dTvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti CONTENTS Page vii 1 Page 3 6 8 12 16 18 21 24 26 30 . . .. 32 35 39 41 47 51 55 57 59 64 65 67 70 76 79 84 87 89 94 96 98 102 106 110 116 120 122 126 129 134 137 141 144 146 v Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Page 147 149 152 156 160 162 165 167 170 173 175 180 184 186 188 191 195 198 201 204 207 209 212 214 216 218 224 227 236 241 244 247 249 252 255 258 262 266 269 274 275 279 282 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Page Latvia 286 Lebanon 288 Lesotho 290 Liberia 292 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 294 Lithuania 297 Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of . .. 299 Madagascar 301 Malawi 305 Malaysia 308 Maldives 313 Mali 315 Malta 318 Marshall Islands 322 Mauritania 323 Mauritius 326 Mexico 329 Micronesia, Federated States of 332 Moldova 333 Mongolia 335 Morocco 337 Mozambique 343 Myanmar 345 Namibia 349 Nepal 351 Netherlands 354 Netherlands Antilles 357 New Zealand 359 Nicaragua 362 Niger 364 Nigeria 368 Norway 372 Oman 375 Pakistan 377 Panama 384 Papua New Guinea 386 Paraguay 389 Peru 391 Philippines 393 Poland 398 Portugal 403 Qatar 406 Romania 408 Russian Federation 411 Rwanda 418 St. Kitts and Nevis 421 St. Lucia 423 St. Vincent and the Grenadines 425 San Marino 428 Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix. EU: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1993 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 430 432 434 439 441 444 446 449 451 454 457 462 465 472 478 482 484 486 488 493 495 498 501 506 508 511 518 522 524 526 530 532 535 541 543 545 547 551 554 556 559 564 568 574 588 595 Note: The term "country/7 as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of offi- cial visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Regime and Market Operations Division of the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department. It draws on the spe- cialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's seven Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1993, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1994. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is bro- ken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes dur- ing 1993 and in early 1994. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involv- ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade sys- tems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such fea- tures as import licensing, advance deposit require- ments, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1993 (and 1994) includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on international transactions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation, but are not necessarily reflected in the body of the country descriptions. The description given in the section Exchange Arrangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(0). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1993, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Resident/Nonresident Accounts, and, in some instances, External Accounts, or Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, main- tained in its currency by account holders who are residents or not regarded as residents of that coun- try, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident/nonresident account, the nature and oper- ation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individ- ual license," which may be given either freely or restrictively according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisi- bles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. In some coun- 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION tries, there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the importation of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrange- ments or limitations attached to international capi- tal movements are described. When regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the prin- cipal regulations that govern the holding, negotia- tion, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 33,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to (1) a few transactions of the central Government (mainly debt-service payments); and (2) certain foreign cur- rency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling exchange rates for the U.S. dollar were Af 50.00 and Af 51.20, respectively, per US$1. Almost all other official transactions are con- ducted at a commercial rate set by the Government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. Between May and December 1989, the previously complex multiple exchange rate system was simpli- fied significantly. Different mixed rates that had applied to proceeds in convertible currencies for nine principal exports were abolished, and proceeds from exports in convertible currencies were shifted to the commercial exchange rate. In December 1989, most public sector transactions, with the exception of debt servicing, were also moved to the commercial exchange rate. The commercial exchange rate was, however, not closely linked to the free market rate. Between December 1989 and February 1991, it was closely linked to the free market rate. In February 1991, it was maintained at Af 734 per US$1, and sub- sequently a significant premium developed between the commercial and free market exchange rates. The central bank limited sales of foreign exchange to five essential commodities (tea, vegetable oil, medicines, powdered milk, and soap) in March 1991. The offi- cial exchange rate now applies to no more than 10 percent of convertible currency transactions. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are determined under each agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). The exchange rate applied to transactions of international organizations is set at 80 percent of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistani rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. No official restrictions are applied to transactions in the free exchange market. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Some of these have been inactive for sev- eral years and others are being phased out. The pro- ceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. The importation of a few items (e.g., certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) is pro- hibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special per- mission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circumstances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of propos- als submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. The importation of petroleum products was a state monopoly until late 1992. In light of Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Russian Federation, and the Slovak Republic. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN recent oil shortages, however, the private sector has been allowed to import and distribute petroleum. The present customs tariff structure, promul- gated in June 1974, changed little until May 1989. At that time, tariff rates on most consumer items were adjusted upward to 30-50 percent from their former range of about 20-35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods of at least equiva- lent value to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open letters of credit. In January 1990, the deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, were adjusted downward to 20 percent from 25 per- cent for essential products and upward to a range of 30-60 percent from a range of 20-50 percent for other products. Payments for Invisibles The maximum amount that can be taken out of the country for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of $1,000 a trip, except for travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. On application, for- eign exchange is allocated for business travel and for medical treatment abroad, and the amounts are determined by Da Afghanistan Bank; normally, the limits are $15,000 for business travel and $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign exchange for other pri- vate purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. The central bank levies a charge of Af 0.75 per US$1 and 1 percent of hard currency for permits that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. For medical treatment and business travel, the central bank levies Af 0.75 per US$1. Travelers may take out not more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. The exportation of a few products (e.g., opium and museum pieces) is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilat- eral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. However, proceeds from seven items (raisins, fresh fruits, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, medicinal herbs, and wool) must be surrendered immedi- ately at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by the Investment Com- mittee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974), which is cur- rently under revision, has a number of provisions, including (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemp- tion from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 5 of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among the prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and depart- ments from enterprises established under the law as long as the prices are not more than 15 percent higher than those of foreign suppliers. The law stipulates that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 percent, and that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatri- ated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domestically gold in any form. Imports and re- exports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from Da Afghanistan Bank and the Min- istry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and sil- ver jewelry and other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the transaction is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the Lek. The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the domes- tic interbank market. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international mar- ket. The Bank of Albania announces the daily aver- age exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. No margins are set between buy- ing and selling rates for the official exchange rate that is applied to government transactions nor are commissions assessed on these transactions. How- ever, the commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks.1 On December 31,1993, the official (middle) rate for the U.S. dollar was lek 98.675 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Authority to amend the exchange control regula- tions is governed by Decree No. 288 of the Council of Ministers. The Bank of Albania administers exchange controls. All commercial banks are autho- rized to conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. The Bank of Albania may (1) authorize banks and other dealers to conduct foreign exchange operations; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) supervise foreign exchange operations to prevent any participant from domi- nating the market. It charges licensed banks and foreign exchange {dealers with ensuring that their operations comply with foreign exchange regula- tions. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. ments agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pending the out- come of negotiations. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident and nonresident natural and juridical persons are permitted to hold accounts in domestic and foreign currencies with commercial banks. Authorized banks must maintain 90 percent cover on the foreign deposits placed with them, of which 10 percent represents the reserve requirement. Commercial banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. There are no restrictions on withdrawals of foreign exchange from foreign exchange accounts by residents or nonresidents. Interest rates paid on foreign cur- rency accounts are determined by banks. Imports and Exports All state and private enterprises, individuals, and juridical persons are free to engage in foreign trade activities. The lists of products subject to export and import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Indus- try and Trade. Licenses are required to import haz- ardous materials and arms. At the end of 1993, eight categories of export products were subject to licensing requirements and four products were sub- ject to an export tax of 25 percent. Applicants for export licenses must pay a service fee of $5 for each license. There are no surrender requirements, but all pri- vate and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate their foreign exchange receipts to Albania through the domestic banking system within 30 days of receipt. They are free to retain these proceeds in or outside the banking system or to convert them into leks. Customs duties range from zero (for raw materi- als, intermediate and investment goods, and some Prescription of Currency All merchandise trade is conducted in convert- ible currencies. All transactions under bilateral pay- 1The commercial banks are free to determine the margins on purchases and sales of foreign bank notes, but they do not charge commissions. 2At the end of 1993, Albania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and Viet Nam. At the end of 1993, Albania also main- tained bilateral trade agreements providing for settlements in convertible currencies with Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Cuba, Egypt, Finland, France, Ger- many, Greece, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Spain, Swe- den, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 7 food stuffs) to 30 percent (for certain industrial materials) and are applied to both private and pub- lic sector imports. In addition, a surcharge of 5 per- cent, based on the c.i.f. value, is levied on all imports except wheat, flour, and investment goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for most invisibles are free of restriction. Basic limits are established for certain invisible pay- ments. For tourist travel, the limit is the equivalent of $150 a person a day, with an annual limit of $900; for business travel, the limit is $200 a person a day, with an annual limit of $1,200. However, these limits are applied liberally and bona fide requests for amounts in excess of the basic allowances are available upon approval from the Bank of Albania. There is no restriction on transfers of dividends and profits. The amount of foreign exchange that emigrants may pur- chase for travel is subject to approval on a case-by-case basis. Proceeds from invisibles are sub- ject to the same requirements as those from mer- chandise exports. The exportation and importation of domestic currency are prohibited. Capital With certain exceptions, capital transfers are sub- ject to the prior written approval of the Bank of Albania. The following capital transfers may be made freely: (1) inward capital transfers; (2) trans- fers of proceeds from disinvestment of a previously registered direct investment, up to the proportion of the total registered capital contribution from the nonresident beneficiary; (3) transfers of proceeds or withdrawal of nonresident deposits; and (4) trans- fers by an emigrant of up to $1,000 a year for an adult (and $500 a year for a child). Foreign borrow- ing is not restricted but is subject to authorization from the Bank of Albania. Foreign direct investment into Albania is free of registration or preapproval requirements for most sectors. All requests for establishing joint ventures with government enti- ties involving over $50,000 in foreign capital must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Similar requests from financial institutions are approved by the Bank of Albania. Profits of joint ventures may be subject to tax rates of up to 50 percent, depend- ing on the activity of the enterprise; profits are not subject to any tax during the first two years of oper- ation for long-term (at least ten-year) investment projects. Enterprises are eligible for reduced tax rates when they reinvest profits in Albania. Nonresidents are prohibited from owning land or other property in Albania. Transfers abroad of proceeds from sales of inherited property are sub- ject to approval. Gold All transactions in gold have to be effected through the Bank of Albania. There are no restric- tions on gold holdings. Gold may be exported only by the Bank of Albania. Changes During 1993 Imports and Exports March 1. Export-licensing requirements were reduced to 8 product groups from 21. March 1. A temporary export tax of 25 percent was levied on fish, leather, medicinal plants, and tobacco. July 20. The range of customs duties was revised, and the number of rates was reduced to four, with the maximum rate reduced to 30 percent from 40 percent. September 17. A surcharge of 5 percent, based on the c.i.f. value, was levied on all imports except wheat, flour, and investment goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles July 1. The 10 percent withholding tax on the repatriation of profits was abolished. Capital Junel. The liquidity requirement ratio on foreign exchange deposits was reduced to 90 percent. October 1. A new law on foreign investment intro- ducing national treatment and safeguard provisions and abolishing pre-authorization requirements was promulgated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Bank of Algeria (the central bank) partly on the basis of a relationship between the dinar and a basket of currencies. The currencies included in the basket and their weights take into account the relative importance of pay- ments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. The Bank of Algeria adjusts this rate to reflect its domestic economic objectives. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 24.1155 and DA 24.1305, respectively, per US$1. Foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. Under Regulation No. 91/07, residents may obtain from their commercial banks forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. Payment for future delivery of foreign exchange may be effected either at the date the contract is made, in which case the spot exchange rate applies, or at the time the foreign exchange is delivered, in which case a forward rate quoted by the Bank of Algeria applies. The Bank of Algeria quotes 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, 12-month, 2-year, and 3-year forward exchange rates for specified currencies (listed in footnote 1). Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formulates exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority over many Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fourniture) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clear- ing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Alge- rian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract; beyond this date, these accounts may not be used for purposes unrelated to the contracts. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in convertible dinars or internal nonresident accounts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened before January 1, 1975, by nonresident nat- ural persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currency. Under Regu- lation No. 91/02, juridical and natural persons of foreign nationality may open accounts denomi- nated in the convertible currency of their choice. Such accounts may be credited with (1) bank notes and other means of payment denominated in for- eign currency; and (2) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited without restriction (1) to make transfers abroad, (2) to export through withdrawals of foreign bank notes, and (3) to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. 2 Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tuni- sia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Bank of Tunisia. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural per- son residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to his coun- try of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) an amount equivalent to the holdings on October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; (2) the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; (3) the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and (4) any other pay- ments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be deb- ited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes devises) may be opened by natural and juridical Algerian nationals residing in Algeria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers of convert- ible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to-bank book transfers between accounts held by individuals. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be deb- ited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign cur- rencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, economic entities have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained proportion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make for- eign payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited, regardless of origin. All import licenses have been abolished. Any juridical and natural persons licensed under the Commercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesalers) may import goods that are not prohibited or restricted without any prior authori- zation, provided that the importer possesses for- eign exchange resources. All these imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must estab- lish by submitting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made only through the domiciled bank, which effects pay- ments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars valued at the official exchange rate. Before import payments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign currency accounts at authorized intermedi- ary banks may use them to pay for imports. Pay- ments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. All import documents are subject to review by a committee under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce and represented by the Bank of Algeria and several other ministries. Documents for imports of less than $100,000 must be forwarded to the committee after the transactions have been com- pleted, whereas documents for imports exceeding $100,000 must be forwarded to the committee before the transactions take place. All imports are divided into three categories: Cat- egory 1 covers priority imports, Category 2 covers restricted imports, and Category 3 covers imports to promote production and investments. Priority imports are subject to a system of cahiers des charges, which specifies certain requirements and obliga- tions for an importer. Such products are considered strategic and receive priority allocations of avail- able foreign exchange and official credit. If recourse to commercial credit becomes necessary, certain minimum requirements (stipulated in Instruction No. 58/92) must be observed. Category 2 contains two lists: List A includes imports that have been temporarily suspended, and L is tB includes imports for which banks are not allowed to provide foreign exchange. Products on List B, however, may be imported if they are financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources. Category 3 prod- ucts are considered necessary to promote produc- tion and investment. Authorization for these imports exceeding $100,000 is granted on a case-by-case basis, whereas applications for imports not exceeding $100,000 are forwarded to commercial banks and financed with monthly for- eign exchange allocations received from the Bank of Algeria. Import financing is classified into four categories: (1) cash, that is, imports financed with resources from exports and other foreign exchange earnings; (2) multilateral and bilateral credit contracted by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALGERIA the Government and allocated to importers; (3) commercial credit contracted directly by import- ers; and (4) imports financed with resources from the foreign currency accounts of importers. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. External borrowing may not exceed the import value. For imports val- ued at less than $2 million, the intermediary bank may combine import orders to seek combined financing. Imports of food products and other con- sumer goods (biens coumnts), raw materials, semi- finished goods, and capital goods used by essential industries are encouraged to be financed with offi- cial lines of credit. For imports not eligible for offi- cial financing, and for those imports that are eligible for official lines of credit but for which the available lines have been totally drawn, banks are instructed to obtain credits with maturities that vary according to the nature of the import. Instruction No. 58/92 stipulates minimum requirements in terms of maturity of the commer- cial credits. For those imports that are subject to the system of cahiers des charges, the minimum maturi- ties are 18 months for consumer goods and 24 months for other goods. In the case of industrial products, the minimum maturity is 24 months for inputs and 36 months for equipment. Except as otherwise indicated by the exchange control authorities (the Bank of Algeria), down pay- ments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3,1980, imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payments before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Special regulations apply to imports that do not require the use of official foreign exchange (importa- tions sans paiements). Capital goods and spare parts, and personal effects with values of less than DA 30,000 may be imported without any reporting requirements regarding the source of the foreign exchange used, but applicable taxes must be paid. The list of items that may be imported is prepared periodically by ministerial decree; it excludes fin- ished consumer goods, except for personal effects. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) business or official travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the central bank or the Ministry of Economy must authorize the granting of exchange. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in October 1986. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance based on need. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange that was freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Certain exports are prohibited regardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydro- carbons, by-products from gas, and mineral prod- ucts must be surrendered. Exporters of other products may retain a specified proportion of their export earnings in a foreign currency account as fol- lows: Algerian tourist operators, 20 percent; export- ers of agricultural and fishery products, 50 percent; and exporters of major services and other products, 100 percent. Entities may use these funds for imports or other payments pertaining to their busi- ness or they may transfer the funds to another for- eign currency account. Exports other than hydrocarbons benefit from certain incentive mea- sures granted by the Government, including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 11 exemption from the tax on industrial and commer- cial profits and the flat rate levy on the wage bill. Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be regis- tered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of collecting. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For the petroleum company that holds mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the impor- tation of foreign bank notes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresi- dents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license. Foreign direct investment is freely permitted, except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990 and Legislative Decree No. 43-12 on Investment Promotion provide guar- antees on foreign direct investments in accordance with international codes that have been ratified by Algeria. Repatriation in respect of the sale or liqui- dation proceeds from invested foreign capital is guaranteed. The law also stipulates that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted, provided that documentation requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remit- tances of profits and retransfers of capital are per- mitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Legislative Decree No. 93-12 pro- vides for various tax and other incentives for for- eign investment for periods of up to five years. Algerian banks offer three-year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value annu- ally into a convertible currency at the official exchange rate. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16,1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la transformation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Angola is the New Kwanza. The exchange rate system consists of three rates: the fixed exchange rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar; a floating exchange rate, which is set by the Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA) taking into account devel- opments in the parallel exchange market; and a paral- lel exchange market rate. The fixed exchange rate applies to official transactions and to traditional exports (oil and diamonds). On December 31, 1993, the fixed exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was NKz 6,500 per US$1. The floating rate applies (1) to all imports under the foreign exchange budget, and to purchases of foreign exchange, checks, traveler's checks, payment orders, and other instruments used in international transactions by individuals, organiza- tions, firms, and tourist operators; and (2) to sales of foreign exchange for travel and special expenses or transfers abroad. On December 31,1993, the floating rate was NKz 34,675 (buying) and NKz 35,025 (sell- ing) per US$1. Exchange rates for 17 other currencies1 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies concerned on the New York, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, and Zurich markets on the basis of a formula that projects exchange rate changes in the following week. This formula takes into account the changes in rates during the preceding week; on December 31,1993, the exchange rates in the parallel markets were NKz 105,000 (buying) and NKz 107,000 (selling) per US$1. Two sets of exchange rates are published weekly by the BNA, one for transactions between the BNA and the commercial banks and the other for trans- actions between the commercial banks and eco- nomic agents. The BNA applies a margin of 0.25 percent to its buying and selling transactions with economic agents. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depend- ing on the currency. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The Organic Law of the BNA and the Financial Institutions Law, promulgated on April 20, 1991, established the BNA and the commercial banks as the financial institutions that are legally authorized to conduct exchange transactions with foreign par- ties. The BNA has delegated authority to banks to license and execute permitted invisible foreign exchange transactions. Commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers licensed by the BNA are authorized to deal in for- eign exchange at the floating and the parallel exchange market rates. The BNA uses the floating rate in its dealings with financial institutions. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through the BNA's commercial department, the Banco de Poupanga e Credito (BPC), and the Banco do Comercio e Industria (BCD, of which the latter two are commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange under the Organic Law of the BNA and the Financial Institutions Law. The BNA's commer- cial department was established to facilitate the transition from the centralized banking system to the two-tier banking system. Accordingly, the BNA serves both as the central bank and as a commercial bank. Financial institutions must deposit with the cen- tral bank all amounts required for payment of taxes and import duties made by foreign enterprises and all proceeds from exports by domestic enterprises, including those credited to accounts abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The BNA prescribes the currency to be used for imports, which depends upon the country with which the transactions are to be carried out. The currency is usually that of the exporting country or the U.S. dollar. Bilateral settlement arrangements, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. These arrangements use single accounts whose monthly balances can be used without restriction for transactions with third parties. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 13 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Individual resident juridical persons may main- tain demand and fixed-term foreign exchange accounts with Angolan financial institutions. These accounts are remunerated at current interest rates. Checkbooks may not be issued against these accounts. The opening of and transactions through these accounts are not subject to prior authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be credited only through delivery of foreign currency in cash, trav- eler's checks, or foreign payment orders, and for interest accrued; they may be debited only through conversion into domestic currency or issuance of any instrument normally accepted on the interna- tional financial market, in settlement of imports of goods and current invisibles, or of capital export operations, carried out by the depositor himself. Transfers between accounts are forbidden. Nonresidents may hold accounts in new kwan- zas, subject to authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the sale of foreign means of payment and with deposits of proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited only through the issuance of orders of withdrawal for payment of local expenditures or through purchase of foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may also hold foreign exchange accounts, subject to authorization from the BNA. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the importation of foreign means of pay- ment or the deposit of proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited only through the sale of foreign means of payment or repatriation of all or part of the existing credit balance. Former residents may also hold accounts in new kwanzas, but they may withdraw funds from these accounts only to cover expenses during their stay in Angola. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, according to a positive list with limits established under the import plan, and to the availability of foreign exchange, except for imports of spare parts, acces- sories or similar goods, medicines, equipment, and raw materials, up to a quarterly maximum of $50,000 (or its equivalent). Enterprises buying for- eign exchange must submit the exporter's pro forma invoices (which may include insurance and freight). For imports exceeding $10,000, enterprises must submit an import registration bulletin within eight days of completion of the operation under penalty of being excluded from future foreign exchange auctions. Licenses are granted only to registered enter- prises of proven technical, commercial, and finan- cial capacity and are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation and restricted to imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To obtain a license, enterprises must present offers of three foreign suppliers to the sectoral ministries and the Ministry of Commerce. The approved offer may be considered for an import license applica- tion, which, in turn, must be approved by the same ministries. Import licenses specify the importer, supplier, intermediary, product (Brussels Nomen- clature Classification, volume, and unit price), ship- ping and insurance companies, cost, and method and currency of payment. Once the importation of merchandise is approved, the BNA issues the credit document, with a copy for the import license appli- cant, stating that, before shipment to Angola, the goods must be examined by the international agen- cies for compliance with international standards for merchandise transactions. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. If an import trans- action is not fully effected within this period, the original merchandise transaction is deemed to have become a capital transaction. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value is levied. Import licenses are also required for statistical purposes even if foreign exchange is not requested. Imports of capital goods must be financed partly by medium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domes- tic air and sea transportation companies, and imports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted at the floating rate; for medical treatment abroad, up to $5,000 is provided through the National Health Board at the official rate. A maxi- mum monthly allowance of $2,500 is granted to res- idents who spend up to 90 days abroad for educational, scientific, or cultural purposes. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and financially dependent on, residents in Angola, pro- vided that (1) they are minor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, demonstrate that they are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ANGOLA students or are incapable of working; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, demon- strate they are incapable of working. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional for- eign exchange amount may be granted at the float- ing rate. Resident nationals who wish to travel abroad may, upon presentation of their passport and airline tick- ets, where applicable purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions as follows: (1) children up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a trip to other countries; and (2) individuals over 16 years, up to $1,500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from financial insti- tutions to cover their employees' travel expenses abroad on trips of up to 30 days, for business, ser- vice, or training, with the following daily limits: (1) president or equivalent, $350; (2) vice president or equivalent, $300; and (3) department director or equivalent, $200. If a person returns to Angola earlier than expected, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institution. All these transac- tions take place at the floating rate. The exportation of domestic currency is prohib- ited. When departing Angola, nonresidents visiting the country for purposes of tourism or business are permitted, upon presentation of the corresponding sales vouchers, to purchase up to 50 percent of the foreign exchange they sold to institutions accred- ited to deal in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods are prohibited.2 Re-exports of goods other than capital goods and personal belongings are also prohibited. Restric- tions apply to the exportation of products that are in short domestic supply. All other exports are sub- ject to prior licensing. Proceeds from exports must be collected within 30 days of shipment and must be surrendered in full to the BNA. Certain foreign enterprises (oil companies) are required to surren- der only a portion of their export receipts and may retain the remainder to cover production costs. Cer- tain domestic enterprises that are considered important foreign exchange earners receive a por- 2Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, ostrich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, histori- cal objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cot- ton, rice, pork, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and petroleum. tion of their export proceeds in foreign exchange. The amount of the allocation is determined on a case-by-case basis and may be held on accounts maintained abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents must be approved by the BNA. The sectoral ministries supervise the execution of contracts. All proceeds must be surrendered to the BNA within 30 days of receipt. There are no limits on the amount of foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in foreign exchange a per- son may bring into the country, but any amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon arrival. Residents are permitted to leave the country with more than $5,000 in foreign exchange only if they present exchange purchase documents; nonresidents must present such docu- ments when the amount exceeds $10,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of July 1988 prohibits investment in strategic sectors.3 Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Divi- dends and capital may be repatriated upon liquida- tion, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inheritances, dowries, savings from wages and sal- aries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold The importation and exportation of gold are a monopoly of the BNA. Residents are permitted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 4. A system of foreign exchange auction to be held by the BNA was introduced. April 1. The foreign exchange auction system was abolished, and a system of dual exchange rates con- sisting of a fixed rate and a floating rate was intro- 3 Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, commu- nications, and transport infrastructure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 15 duced. The fixed rate set at NKz 24,000 per US$1, would apply to official transactions (including for sales of oil and diamonds) and payment transac- tions relating to the social reintegration program, energy and water, and components and parts for the agricultural and energy sectors. All remaining transactions would be conducted at the floating rate, which is also to be determined by the BNA, taking into account developments in the parallel market. The fixed rate would be adjusted periodi- cally so as to close the gap with the parallel market rate within a year. September 1. All imports under the foreign exchange budget began to be effected at the floating exchange rate. October 13. The fixed exchange rate was set at NKz 6,500 per US$1. December 16. Commercial banks were authorized to retain up to 70 percent of foreign currency depos- its in accounts abroad and to use the remainder for their normal operations but without the exchange cover of the BNA. The BNA, however, may impose a minimum surrender of balances in these accounts at any time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70per US$1. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transac- tions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22,1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are required for a range of products, partic- ularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Car- ibbean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. lrThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms, especially in tourist-oriented industries or export trade, whose receipts are primarily in for- eign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts oper- ations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Certain other commodi- ties require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda fol- lows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permit- ted upon application and submission of documen- tary evidence. Imports exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis, generally under th^ Fiscal Incentives Act of 1975 and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Upon presentation of supporting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 for each trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Minis- try of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. Official 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 17 authorization is required for amounts exceeding these limits. Foreign exchange allowances for edu- cation, family maintenance, medical treatment, and remittances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Profits on foreign direct investment may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, approval from the Min- istry of Finance must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charitable purposes, are usually granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold, Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Argentina is the Peso, the exter- nal value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the middle rate of the peso in terms of the U.S. dollar was A0.999 per US$1. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency under the regime introduced on December 20,1989; the rates may be freely negotiated. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14,1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose with no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These autho- rized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies; each type of institution is subject to sep- arate regulations. Credit institutions and mortgage savings and loan companies may also effect certain foreign exchange transactions on the condition that they meet certain additional capital requirements. Prescription of Currency Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA), payments between Argentina and Bra- zil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are settled voluntar- ily through payment agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. All payments between Argen- tina and Bolivia and the Dominican Republic must be effected through the accounts specified in the agreements. Argentina has also signed similar agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Malay- sia, and the Russian Federation. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a vol- untary basis through the accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, with the exception of Cuba, where set- tlement is obligatory. Transactions with other coun- tries must be settled in freely usable currencies. Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or foreign exchange in the name of residents or non- residents who have met certain identification requirements that are aimed at, among other things, preventing money laundering. Accounts in foreign exchange must be denominated in convertible cur- rencies and may be credited only with cash or with remittances from abroad. Both resident and nonres- ident holders of demand or time foreign currency accounts may use their credit balances freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. Since January 1, 1993, the use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars has been allowed for domestic transactions.1 Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies. Payments for imports may be freely set- tled by authorized financial entities. The tariff regime consists of eight rates: 2.5 per- cent, 5 percent, 7.5 percent, 10 percent, 12.5 percent, 15 percent, 17.5 percent, and 20 percent. All imports,, except capital goods not produced domestically, works of art, reimports of specific groups, fuel, reproducing machines, paper money, books, and large trucks, are subject to a statistical tax of 10 per- cent. A statistical tax of 3 percent is levied on various agricultural and industrial inputs not produced locally. A special tariff regime applies to automobiles. Automobile manufacturers are allowed to import automobiles up to the value of their exports at the tariff rate of 2 percent. Automobile dealers are allowed to import automobiles for resale by bid- ding on the tariff rate over the standard tariff rate applicable (20 percent after November 1992). Con- sumers are allowed to import automobiles for per- sonal use by either (1) bidding on the tariff rate or 1 Since February 1, 1993, the reserve requirement has been allowed to be met partially in foreign or domestic currency, and the same reserve requirement ratio has been applied to foreign and domestic currency deposits. Financial institutions may cover all assets denominated in local currency with foreign exchange resources, except those in the form of savings and fixed-term deposits, up to a limit of 25 percent of their assessable capital and reserves. Financial institutions accepting savings and fixed-term deposits in foreign currencies must limit them to no more than six times the total of capital and reserves. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 19 (2) importing directly only models of automobiles produced domestically or imported by domestic producers at the standard tariff rate. In both cases, quotas established by the Trade Secretariat on the basis of domestic production are applied. Argentina is in the process of reducing tariffs on goods imported from other members of the South American Common Market (MERCOSUR) (Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay). The rate of tariff prefer- ence was 82 percent in January 1994 and will reach 100 percent (i.e., total exemption) in January 1995. Tariff preferences do not include the statistical tax. Imports from Uruguay covered by the Convenio Argentino-Uruguayo de Comercio Exterior (CAUCE)2 and all imports from Paraguay are exempt from the statistical tax. Imports (except automobiles and automobile products and certain paper products) are not sub- ject to quantitative restrictions. Imports of food are subject to control for sanitary reasons. Payments for Invisibles Neither payments for invisibles nor the exporta- tion of domestic and foreign bank notes is restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export (reference) prices that applied to various categories of agricultural and livestock exports in 1992 were abolished by Decision No. 1239 of November 2, 1992; under this decision, duties were also eliminated, except those on soy- beans, sunflower seeds, groundnuts, turnips, and cotton, to which a 3.5 percent duty would apply, and untanned leather, to which a 15 percent duty would apply. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for export rebates ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent. The rates of export rebates are set at the same level as import tariffs. They are estimated to be, on average, about 6 percent of the export value. Quantitative restrictions on exports are main- tained only on arms, protected animal species, and products subject to international agreements. Export proceeds are not required to be repatriated. The financing system for promoted exports has been suspended by Communication "A" 1807 of March 8,1991, except with respect to those products that were in the process of exportation at that time. Under Communication "A" 1994 of August 31, 2 Under the CAUCE, Uruguay may export limited amounts of specific goods with preferential treatment. 1992, this system was transferred to the Banco de Inversion y Comercio Exterior (Investment and For- eign Trade Bank). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions of the pri- vate sector need not be repatriated. The importation of domestic and foreign bank notes is not subject to exchange control. Capital All private sector loans may be transacted in the free exchange market without restriction. Autho- rized banks may accept foreign currency deposits, subject to certain conditions (see section on Resi- dent and Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Law No. 24.156 of October 29,1992. The foreign investment regime was modified by Decree No. 1853/93, which repealed Decree No. 1225/89 and approved the codified text of Foreign Investment Law No. 21.382, as amended by Law Nos. 23.697 and 23.760. Foreign investors may invest in Argentina without prior approval on the same terms as investors domiciled in Argentina. Investments may be made freely in any convertible currency, in capital goods and their spare parts and accessories, in profits earned locally or other capital belonging to foreign investors, provided that they may legally be transferred abroad, in capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign cur- rency, in intangible goods (in accordance with the specific applicable legislation), and in any other form of contribution envisaged in special or promo- tional regimes. In accordance with Article 5 of Decree No. 1853/ 93, foreign investors may, at any time, exercise their right to repatriate capital and remit earnings abroad. Local enterprises based on foreign capital may borrow domestically with the same rights and on the same terms as local enterprises based on domestic capital. Investment promotion and protection agreements have been concluded with the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union, and the governments of Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The agreements will come into effect when the govern- ments notify each other that their constitutional requirements for entry into force of international agreements have been met. These agreements are intended to promote, and especially to protect, investments in the signatory countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 Gold ARGENTINA Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial insti- tutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good-delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients. The importation of gold coins and good-delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible cur- rencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are sub- ject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are also subject to a sales tax. Institu- tions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good-delivery gold against foreign bank notes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Changes During 1993 Prescription of Currency December 3. The Central Bank of Argentina signed a Payment and Reciprocal Credit Agreement with the Bank Negara of Malaysia providing for volun- tary settlements of commercial transactions. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 1. Checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars were allowed to be opened by resi- dents and used for domestic and international transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rate of tariff preferences under MERCOSUR was raised to 68 percent of the normal import duty rates. May 1. Tariffs on capital goods were eliminated. May 1. All imports from Paraguay were exempted from the statistical tax. July 1. The rate of tariff preferences under MER- COSUR was raised to 75 percent of the normal import duty rates. Temporary quotas were imposed on certain paper products, and specific duties were levied on imports of certain textile products. August 12. The statistical tax on imports on vari- ous agricultural and industrial inputs was reduced to 3 percent from 10 percent. Capital April 7. Swaps of bonds for eligible debts agreed to under the Brady Plan by Argentina and foreign creditor banks began to take place in accordance with the debt- and debt-service-reduction opera- tions. (The debt-equity swap and most of the inter- est swaps were completed on April 28,1994.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Armenia is the Dram. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of foreign exchange auc- tions held by the Central Bank of Armenia once a week. Only banks and other financial institutions licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions may participate in the auctions. Enterprises may buy and sell at the auction only through participat- ing financial institutions. The exchange rate at which available foreign exchange is exhausted applies to all transactions conducted at each ses- sion. At the end of February 1994, the average cash auction rate was dram 163.56 per US$1 and the average noncash auction rate was dram 204.85 per US$1. The Central Bank quotes official rates in terms of U.S. dollars at least three times a week on the basis of the rate prevailing at the latest foreign exchange auc- tions. This rate must be used for all foreign exchange transactions of the Government and public enter- prises when remitting or buying foreign exchange from the Central Bank or other licensed foreign exchange institutions. Exchange rates for other major currencies are calculated on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar in the London interbank market against the currencies concerned, or in the absence of such quotations, on the basis of the rates quoted by the Central Bank of Russia. These rates are also posted by the Central Bank of Armenia. Enterprises or any other physical or juridical per- sons (including state enterprises) are free to buy and sell foreign exchange without restriction through authorized institutions; however, exporters must surrender 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to a licensed institution after deducting all direct foreign exchange costs. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Government Decision No. 287 of May 13, 1992 sets out the principles and procedures for foreign exchange and currency transactions between resi- dents and nonresidents. The Ministry of Finance has overall responsibility for regulating financial relations between Armenia and other countries. Although the Central Bank is responsible for imple- menting and monitoring compliance with this deci- sion, its role in practice has been limited to licensing foreign exchange dealers (primarily 12 commercial banks and a number of financial and commodity exchanges) and monitoring exchange rates applied by the commercial banks. Banks and other financial institutions are granted two types of foreign exchange licenses. A full license gives authority to an institution to conduct any type of foreign exchange transaction, including those with nonresidents abroad. Institutions hold- ing a restricted license may only buy and sell for- eign exchange domestically from residents. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the central banks of these countries. Settlements with countries with which Armenia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.1 Settlements with all other countries may be made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may open, maintain, and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad without authorization. Regulations pertaining to the con- version of Russian ruble balances held in Armenia for transfer to these accounts have not yet been for- mulated. Residents may also open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Armenia, subject to restriction. Sources of foreign exchange to be credited to these accounts need not be revealed. Foreign exchange held in these accounts may be transferred freely to the resident holder's bank account abroad. Emigrants may transfer abroad without limit the balances in their domestic foreign 'exchange accounts. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency bank notes *At the end of 1993, Armenia maintained a bilateral payments agreement with Turkmenistan and bilateral trade agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R.; these agreements provide for settlements in convertible currencies. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ARMENIA that can be purchased with Russian rubles from licensed foreign exchange dealers, and the bank notes can be deposited in a foreign exchange account or used for transactions with nonresidents. Resident enterprises may maintain and use foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with the autho- rization of the Central Bank. The opening and use of domestic foreign exchange accounts are not restricted. Nonresident na tural and juridical persons may open and use foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks, provided that they are registered with the local authorities. Balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the licensed domestic banks for Russian rubles. Nonresident juridical persons may also open accounts in Russian rubles and use them for domestic transactions in accordance with the Cen- tral Bank's instructions. Foreign governments and international institutions may open Russian ruble accounts with authorization from the Central Bank. Imports and Exports Authorization from the Central Bank is required to transact in foreign exchange when the underly- ing import operations are subject to licensing; approval is automatically granted upon presenta- tion of valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy Imports of a number of products are prohibited for public health, national security, and environ- mental reasons, for example, medicinal prepara- tions and chemical agents for plant protection. Imports of certain goods (e.g., all kinds of industrial waste, weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives) require special authorization from the Government. Customs tar iffs are levied only on products imported from countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. At present, the tariff rate is, in principle, 15 percent, but in practice numerous exceptions are granted, and lower rates apply to a number of products. Authorization from the Central Bank is required to use foreign exchange earned from export opera- tions that are subject to licensing; approval is auto- matically granted upon presentation of valid export licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Export licenses are required for nine product groups: iron and iron ore; iron alloys and oxides; precious metals; rare metals; synthetic gems; natu- ral gems and jewelry; textiles; marble, granite, and building stones; and brandy. Exports of the follow- ing products are controlled for public health, national security, and environmental reasons (Government Decision No. 410 of July 22, 1992): wild animals and plants in danger of extinction; medicines; weapons; nuclear technology and non- nuclear products; and technology with direct mili- tary applications. In addition, textiles exported to European Union (EU) countries are subject to licensing. Proceeds from exports must be repatri- ated within 30 days of receipt, and 50 percent of the proceeds must be surrendered. Expenses, com- missions, and taxes paid abroad relating to exports may be deducted from export proceeds prior to repatriation. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident persons and enterprises may freely pur- chase foreign exchange or use foreign exchange bal- ances in their foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks to conduct invisible transactions. The Central Bank is formulating verification proce- dures. There are no limits on foreign exchange allowances for travel. Proceeds from cultural activities performed abroad are exempt from the repatriation require- ment. Proceeds from other invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to pro- ceeds from merchandise exports. The importation of foreign currency bank notes is not restricted. At present, the exportation of foreign currency bank notes is not regulated; a d ra ft cus- toms law is under preparation that would require a declaration for the exportation of means of pay- ment in excess of $1,000. In principle, Russian ruble bank notes can be exported only to states of the former U.S.S.R. Capital Foreign investors, including joint ventures, are not required to obtain authorization from the Ministry of Finance. A draft foreign investment law, which was submitted to Parliament in early 1992, is under delib- eration; it reflects current international practices and is liberal in its treatment of foreign direct investment. Other inward and outward capital transfers require approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold A license is required to conduct trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 23 Changes During 1993 Imports and Exports Exchange Arrangement November 22. The national currency, the dram, was issued at the conversion rate of dram 1 to (pre-1993) Rub 200. October 1. Fifty percent of exports were required to be surrendered. The surrender requirement would apply, retroactively, from August 1,1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 per US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba deals with local com- mercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On December 31,1993, the offi- cial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of U.S. dollar rates on the interna- tional exchange market. A foreign exchange commis- sion of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for foreign exchange control purposes are exempted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency except the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as receipts through local banks and banks abroad, must be reported to the Central Bank. 1 On Janua ry 1,1986, the Island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetro- politan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency and are permitted to hold accounts in Aruban florins with up to Af. 200,000. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts Residents must report in writing to the Central Bank the opening of foreign bank accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports other than eggs are not subject to quanti- tative restrictions. The restriction on the importa- tion of eggs, however, is administered liberally, depending on the domestic supply situation. Pay- ments for imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Central Bank. Allowances for education remittances for family maintenance and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Residents may buy foreign exchange for travel purposes, up to a maximum amount equivalent to Af. 400 for each day of travel, Af. 8,000 a trip, or Af. 15,000 a calendar year, without a special permit, and up to a maximum amount equivalent to Af. 2,500 without presenting travel documents. Transfers of profits and dividends require a license from the Central Bank. The exporta- tion of Aruban bank notes is prohibited, and that of foreign currencies requires a license. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Unless specifi- cally exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days and credited to a foreign currency account with a local bank or with a foreign bank with the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 25 Capital The following transactions require a license from the Central Bank: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic and officially listed secu- rities (a resident natural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year); (2) pur- chases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic and foreign real estate (a resident natural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year); (3) proceeds from the liquidation of direct foreign investments; (4) loans received from, and extended to, nonresidents; and (5) other short- and long-term investments by residents abroad, or of nonresidents in Aruba (a resident natural person must obtain a license if values exceed Af. 200,000 a year). Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles June 29. A regulation was introduced permitting residents to buy foreign exchange for travel pur- poses, without special permits, up to a maximum amount equivalent to Af. 400 for each day of travel, Af. 8,000 a trip, Af. 15,000 a calendar year, and, without presenting travel documents, up to a maxi- mum amount equivalent to Af. 2,500. Capital January 1. Without a special permit, a resident natural person may invest up to the equivalent of Af. 200,000 abroad during a calendar year, provided that funds are not obtained from a domestic loan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The Reserve Bank of Australia publishes an indicative rate for the Aus- tralian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. On December 31, 1993, the indicative rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was $A 1.4769 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any cur- rency, in respect of trade- and nontrade-related trans- actions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1965. Administration of Control The only restrictions on external payments and transfers are those introduced to give effect to UN Security Council Resolutions imposing sanctions against Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Payments and transfers to the governments and nationals of these countries are prohibited without Reserve Bank approval. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. ]The Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nau ru, and Tuvalu. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality and may repatriate funds with- out restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of foreign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply to interest-bearing investments by foreign govern- ment monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than tariff quotas, which apply to cheese and curd. Australia is not a signa- tory of the Multifiber Arrangement. For many products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authori- ties or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, particular chemicals, certain primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Austra- lia's membership in international commodity agreements. Almost all tariff rates have been subject to a tar- iff-reduction program in recent years. In 1991-92, the import-weighted average tariff rate (i.e., total duty paid divided by the f.o.b. value of all imports) was 6.5 percent. Under the tariff-reduction program announced in 1988, tariff rates above 15 percent were gradually reduced to 15 percent by July 1992, and tariff rates higher than 10 percent but lower than 15 percent were phased down to 10 percent over the same period. Proportional reductions were made to those tariffs not expressed in ad valorem terms. The tariff-reduction plan announced in March 1991 calls for most tariffs to be reduced to a maximum level of 5 percent by July 1996. The exceptions in these two tariff-reduction programs are for passenger automobiles and the textile, cloth- ing, and footwear sectors, where tariffs have been relatively high, especially in effective terms. Under 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 27 the 1988 program, tariffs on passenger automobiles were reduced to 35 percent by July 1992, and tariff quotas in the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors are to be eliminated by the middle of 1995. The March 1991 program calls for further phased tariff reductions to 15 percent in the passenger motor vehicle industry and to 25 percent in the textile, footwear, and clothing sectors by the year 2000. Tar- iffs on textiles, clothing, and footwear that are not subject to tariff quotas were halved on March 1, 1992, and eliminated on March 1,1993. Australia's antidumping procedures were simpli- fied under the revised Customs Tariff (Antidump- ing) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link between dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Antidumping duties and undertakings will lapse automatically after five years, although domestic industries may renew the antidumping petition. In special circumstances, antidumping actions may be introduced retrospectively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or subsidized goods. The Antidumping Authority was estab- lished to advise the Government on these actions, although the Australian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investigation of a complaint. In March 1991, the Government announced plans to strengthen the antidumping procedures, including accelerating the complaint process and extending the injury test to cover upstream agricultural industry In December 1991, the Government announced it would reduce the time taken to process complaints and change the way in which dumping duties are levied. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), trade in goods across the Tasman became free from July 1, 1990 (five years ahead of schedule). Imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand were subject to a customs tariff until January 1, 1990. Antidumping actions against imports from New Zealand ceased after July 1, 1990. Actions will be taken under domestic trade practices legislation if it is considered necessary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets on a nonreciprocal basis for most of the products exported by the member countries. In the case of Papua New Guinea, although it obtains trade concessions from New Zealand under SPARTECA, its trade and commercial relations with Australia are covered by the Agree- ment on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea.3 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian System of Tariff Preference. Since 1986, a uniform preferential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has applied to all developing countries; if the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty-free. In February 1993, the Gov- ernment announced the phased removal of the prefer- ence margins applicable to certain industries, including textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, sugar, canned food, fruit juice, and dried fruit. This will apply to all beneficiary countries except the least developed countries and the South Pacific Island Ter- ritories. The preferential rates for these specified industries will be frozen until the General Tariff rate falls to the preference rate; the General Tariff rate will then apply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving nationals of Iraq and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene- gro). There is no restriction on the amount of Australian or foreign currency which can be taken out of Australia, so long as the foreign currency was purchased from an authorized dealer. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out any foreign currency which they brought into Australia. Persons leaving Australia with cash (i.e., bank notes and coins) in any currency totaling $A 5,000 or more must complete a report for the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUS- TRAC); the report forms are available at ports or airports from the Australian customs authorities. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for a progressive liberalization of the trade in ser- vices between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's exclusions are in the areas of telecommunications, banking (removed after the Martin report), airport services and aviation, coastal shipping, media, and postal services. The protocol was reviewed in 1990 and 1992 and will be reviewed again in 1994 with a view to liberalizing currently exempted services. The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand)—Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nau ru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 Exports and Export Proceeds AUSTRALIA The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exportation of Australian products. Bounties are paid to producers of a limited number of products, some of which may be exported. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obligations under international arrangements; restrict the exportation of certain defense goods; reg- ulate the exportation of goods that contain high tech- nology and have dual civilian and military application;4 and maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulat- ing the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to respond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. The Government has abolished or amended export controls on many mineral and petroleum products. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. The Government monitors trade in the bauxite, alumina, coal, and iron ore sectors and retains authority to withhold export approval for ship- ments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compli- ance with the Government's commercial and non- proliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to the exportation of certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for the exportation of unprocessed wood, including wood chip. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, elimination of market distor- tions, and promotion of further processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary restraint agreements (VRAs) or similar restraint agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on exports of the meat of sheep and goats as well as high-quality "Hilton" beef to the European Union (EU), and bovine meat and steel products to the United States. The Australian Dairy Corpora- tion administers export control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of con- 4Australia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM), effective May 1989. trolled dairy products must be licensed. This sys- tem allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made only by per- sons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Austra- lian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Other Com- monwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Hor- ticultural Corporation, the Australian Wool Corpo- ration, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in Australian or for- eign currency, subject to completion of a customs report for cash totaling $A 5,000 or more. (See sec- tion on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be undertaken without formality. The only exceptions are foreign governments, their agencies, and inter- national organizations. These entities are barred from issuing bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Trea- sury or Reserve Bank of the details of each borrow- ing after its completion. Although there are no limits on the interest-bearing investments of inter- national organizations or of foreign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an amount up to which the invest- ment of foreign government monetary institutions (which also undertake commercial investments) will be regarded as having been undertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank informed of their Australian dollar portfolios. Interest-bearing investments of a foreign govern- ment's official foreign reserves are exempt from tax- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 29 ation consistent with the principle of sovereign immunity. Income derived by a foreign government from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Australian taxation. The Government recognizes the substantial con- tribution foreign investment makes to the develop- ment of Australia's industries and resources and has framed its policies so as to encourage direct investment in line with the needs of the community. Under Australia's foreign investment policy, certain types of proposals by foreign investors for acquisi- tion or investment of more than $A 50 million are subject to full examination. These include (1) acqui- sitions of substantial interests in existing Australian businesses; and (2) proposals for the establishment of new businesses. Proposals for investments in the following areas are subject to examination irrespec- tive of size: (1) investment in the media; (2) direct investment by foreign governments or their agen- cies; (3) acquisition of nonresidential commercial real estate; and (4) acquisition of residential real estate (unless exempt under the regulations). For- eign investors may acquire residential estates within a designated integrated tourist resort (ITR) without obtaining approval under the foreign investment guidelines. In most industry sectors, the Government approves proposals to establish new businesses involving total investments of $A 10 million or more and those to acquire existing businesses with total assets valued at $A 5 million or more ($A 3 million or more if more than half of the assets of the business are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Certain restrictions apply to proposed acquisi- tions of real estate, but approval is normally granted to (1) acquisitions of real estate for develop- ment; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condition that development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are "off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one devel- opment are sold to foreign interests); and (3) acqui- sitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign Investment Review Board, which acts as an indepen- dent advisor to the Government on foreign invest- ment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their proposals. In February 1992, the Government decided to permit foreign banks authorized under the Banking Act to operate as wholesale banks in the form of a branch (previously, foreign banks were authorized as incorporated subsidiaries). All foreign corpora- tions seeking authorization to conduct banking business in Australia must satisfy the Reserve Bank of their willingness and capacity to adhere to high sTandards of prudential management. Foreign bank branches are not required to maintain "endowed capital" in Australia and, consequently, the Reserve Bank does not impose any capital-based large expo- sure limits. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins. If the exportation or importation of coins (together with any notes) exceeds $A 5,000, it must be reported to AUSTRAC. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments September 25. Restrictions on the importation of coal and other fuels and steel products from South Africa were lifted. Exports and Export Proceeds September 25. Restrictions on the exportation of crude oil and petroleum products to South Africa were lifted. Capital September 25. The ban on new investment/rein- vestment of profits by Australians in South Africa and other restrictions on financial transactions with South Africa were lifted. Gold September 25. Restrictions on the importation and exportation of Krugerrand and other coins minted in South Africa were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the authorities aim at maintaining a stable relationship with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank (the central bank) does not intervene in the forward market or provide cover for the forward positions of commercial banks. On December 31, 1993, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S12.093 and S12.193, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 1,1962. Administration of Control Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Cer- tain restrictions on payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the Government of Iraq are still in force. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Austria notified the Fund on July 7,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Restrictions are imposed on certain current payments and transfers to Libya in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993). Export and import licenses required under the Foreign Trade Act of 1984 and its amendments must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. In instances where the cus- toms authorities are authorized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of these ministries, the licenses are granted without delay or formal appli- cation (automatic licensing) when the goods clear customs. Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, free schilling accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents and are not subject to restrictions. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. These are subject to the same conditions as free schilling accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. For most goods, except for certain agricultural products, licenses are granted by customs at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country from which the goods are imported. Nearly all imports from General Agreement on Tar- iffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and certain other countries have been liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, with the exception of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discretionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to imports of preserved meat, wine, cement, and fertil- izers.1 Discretionary individual licensing is applica- ble to all other private imports. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk, and butter, as well as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption, are 1PThe quotas on cement and fertilizers expired on April 15, 1994. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 31 imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law that gov- erns livestock farming and trading and the market- ing of livestock produce. Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for peri- ods of three months at a time. Imports of cement and agricultural machinery from the Eastern Euro- pean countries are restricted. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which set- tlements are made in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Pref- erences, special treatment is provided for imports from developing countries, and in particular, those from the least developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligi- ble for preferential treatment has been extended on a regular basis. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving payments for invisi- bles without restriction. Residents traveling abroad for purposes of tour- ism may purchase foreign exchange from autho- rized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresidents without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law must be obtained from the relevant min- istry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due con- sideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements, the fulfillment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. import Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian secu- rities and shares and participation by nonresidents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acqui- sition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Nonresidents are permitted to issue bonds on the domestic market. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are not permitted to invest in the auditing, mining, energy, transportation, or legal sectors, nor to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships registered in Austria. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Nonresidents' direct invest- ments in Austria and the purchases of Austrian or foreign equities do not require approval. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents, as well as to foreign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises; earnings accrued from such investment may be freely used. Residents are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, and to purchase from nonresidents securities denominated in Austrian and foreign currencies without restriction. Resi- dents are also permitted to open bank accounts and issue bonds abroad. Gold The Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for certain gold imports (e.g., gold sheets). The licenses are issued either by the Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs to industrial users or by the customs office. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes During 1993 Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with- out restriction. Persons entering Austria may No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Azerbaijan is the Manat. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: the official exchange rate and the market exchange rate negotiated among enterprises in the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange. The official exchange rate for the manat against the U.S. dollar is fixed by the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) at manat 118 per US$1. Sixteen currencies are consid- ered convertible,1 and official exchange rates for these currencies are published by the International Bank on the basis of cross exchange rates at the Mos- cow Interbank Currency Exchange. The official exchange rate is used for official transactions, pro- ceeds surrendered from exports of nonstrategic goods, and as an accounting rate to value the foreign exchange assets of enterprises and banks. Most enterprise foreign exchange transactions occur at bilaterally negotiated exchange rates, which vary widely but were about manats 600 per US$1 at the end of February 1994.2 Auctions of foreign exchange, including the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R., are held weekly at the Baku Interbank Cur- rency Exchange. Participation in the auctions is restricted to the commercial banks that are licensed to deal in foreign exchange bidding on behalf of their customers. Bids for currencies have been submitted, but there have been no offers of currencies, and no auctions have been held since November 24, 1993. Forty-six commercial banks are authorized to con- duct transactions in foreign exchange, though at the end of 1993, only 19, including the International Bank, conducted foreign exchange transactions. Authorized banks are free to set buying and selling rates for cash transactions. These rates at the Interna- tional Bank are published weekly. On February 23, 1994, the exchange rate for cash transactions was manats 400 per US$1 (buying) and manats 410 per US$1 (selling). No commission is assessed on pur- chases of foreign exchange by the International l rThe currencies considered convertible are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and U.S. dollars. An official exchange rate against the ECU is also posted. 2A Presidential Decree was signed in January 1994 that pro- hibits the direct bilateral negotiation of exchange transactions between enterprises outside of the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange. Bank, but a commission of 2-3 percent is added for sales of foreign exchange. Several effective buying rates arise from the oper- ation of partial surrender requirements in connec- tion with export proceeds, which are converted at official or market-determined exchange rates (see section on Imports and Exports, below). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Azerbaijan National Bank Law, which gives the ANB responsibility for regulating the exchange rate of the manat, conducting foreign currency operations, and administering gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange; for regu- lating foreign exchange operations, including imple- menting and monitoring compliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing for- eign exchange operations. Foreign trade is regulated under the Foreign Eco- nomic Activity Law by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations (MFER). The Customs Service Law regulates the organization and operation of the Customs Service. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade must register with the Ministry of Justice. Trade licenses for petroleum, cotton, and other goods considered strategic are issued by the MFER, and export quotas are determined by the Ministry of Economy. Foreign private investment in joint ventures must be registered with the MFER and the Ministry of Finance. Investment abroad by both Azeri nationals and companies is regulated by a state decree that limits the opening of foreign exchange accounts in foreign countries. A license must be obtained from the ANB as well as permission from the Cabinet of Ministers to open such accounts. Prescription of Currency Residents of the Republic of Azerbaijan may, once a transaction is approved, make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 33 Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. other than the Russian Federation are effected through correspondent accounts of the commercial banks in these states. Settlements with the Russian Federation are carried out mostly through the cor- respondent accounts of the respective central banks, although commercial banks are now being licensed to open such accounts with banks in the Russian Federation. Azerbaijan maintains a bilat- eral payments arrangement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. The balance on account earns interest at LIBOR plus 0.75 percent. At the end of three months, the corresponding balance is settled in convertible currencies within 25 days. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individual persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts maintained at banks abroad with the authorization of the ANB. Residents may freely open and use for- eign currency accounts maintained at licensed banks in Azerbaijan. No declaration of the origin of the foreign exchange is required. Foreign exchange held in these accounts may be transferred upon authorization to the holder's bank account abroad or freely converted into domestic currency. Nonresident individual persons and enterprises are free to open foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manats. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in rubles or manats and use them for domestic transactions in accordance with the instructions issued by the ANB. Foreign governments and international institutions may open and operate manat or Russian ruble accounts with specific authorization from the ANB. Imports and Exports Payments for imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be made in rubles or manats, including bank notes, or through the system of cor- respondent accounts operated by the ANB and the commercial banks. Payments for imports from countries outside the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made in accordance with normal commercial practices. There are no restrictions on the use of for- eign exchange for import payments from enter- prises' own accounts. There are no licensing requirements for imports. However, imports are effectively controlled through bilateral trade agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. or through a system of con- tract registration. For imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R., volume and price are constrained by export licenses and contracts in the originating state. A few imports are banned for health, environ- mental, or security reasons. Duties are levied on imports in accordance with Resolution No. 401 of June 21, 1993 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Duty rates vary by product but do not distinguish between imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. and those from other countries. A customs fee of 0.5 percent is levied on imports from all sources. Resident individual persons and enterprises are required to repatriate proceeds from exports within three months and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan within ten days of receipt unless spe- cifically exempted by the Government. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to eco- nomic activities may be deducted from the pro- ceeds prior to transfer to a licensed bank. After transfer to a licensed bank, proceeds are distributed among the exporter's foreign exchange accounts, the ANB, and the Republican Hard Currency Fund (RHCF)3 (in accordance with Decree No. 575 of November 3, 1993 of the Cabinet of Ministers), as follows: (1) exporters of goods considered strategic may retain 15 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, which they may keep in foreign exchange accounts or convert into local currency at the mar- ket exchange rate. Sixty percent is surrendered to the RHCF, and exporters receive the domestic cur- rency equivalent, which is calculated as export vol- ume times the domestic currency price. The remaining 25 percent is surrendered to the ANB, for which enterprises receive the domestic currency equivalent calculated at the official rate; and (2) the surrender requirement ratios for nonstrategic goods range up to 65 percent, with 25 percent surrendered to the ANB for all categories of goods, while the portion surrendered to the RHCF varies with prod- uct. All surrendered foreign exchange from non- strategic goods is converted at the official rate. The surrender requirements apply to all exports, includ- ing those to the states of the former U.S.S.R. The retained foreign exchange may be kept by the exporter in foreign exchange accounts or converted into local currency. All exporters are obligated to sell 5 percent of their retained foreign exchange (after meeting surrender requirements) to licensed 3 The RHCF consists of a Presidential Fund (to finance essen- tial imports such as wheat and medicine), a Fund for the Council of Ministers (to finance imports related to infrastructure devel- opment), and an Enterprise Fund (to finance certain approved imports). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 AZERBAIJAN banks at the market exchange rate. The proceeds are used to provide foreign exchange for travel by residents. Unless special permission is obtained from the Cabinet of Ministers, evidence of prepayment or an authorized letter of credit must be presented to the State Customs Committee before goods are cleared for export. Exports of strategic goods must be licensed by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and they are subject to global quotas set for each prod- uct by the Ministry of Economy based on an estima- tion of production and domestic consumption. Sub-quotas are set for exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. in accordance with bilateral agree- ments. The MFER issues licenses freely to exports within quota limits, subject to verification of the contract. No licenses are required for exports of nonstrategic goods, although contracts must be reg- istered with the MFER. Some export bans exist, mainly on defense equipment. Export duties are assessed in accordance with Resolution No. 401 of June 21, 1993 of the Cabinet of Ministers. Duty rates vary by commodity but do not distinguish between exports destined for the states of the former U.S.S.R. and those for other countries. Lower rates are assessed on goods exported to countries that have concluded bilateral trade agreements with Azerbaijan. Duties are pay- able in foreign exchange proceeds received from exports or in manats for goods traded under barter agreements, in which case the value of exports in foreign currency is determined at the official exchange rate. A customs fee of 0.5 percent is levied on exports to all destinations. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Although there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of funds held in foreign currency accounts, residents may, upon presenting their travel docu- ments, purchase up to $2,000 a year from a licensed foreign exchange dealer to travel abroad. Up to $500 per year may be purchased without documentation. The exportation of foreign bank notes is regu- lated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance, in conformity with customs regulations. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within three months and transferred to a licensed bank within ten days of receipt. The importation of foreign bank notes is regulated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance in conformity with customs regulations. Capital Inward private capital transfers require approval from the ANB, and borrowing abroad by the Gov- ernment is subject to an annual ceiling determined by Parliament. Foreign exchange transactions of private investors are protected by the Protection of Foreign Investment Law adopted on January 15, 1992. Under this law, the treatment of foreign investment cannot be less favorable than that extended to domestic investment, and foreign investment may receive preferential treatment. Foreign investment is protected from nationaliza- tion and expropriation unless state interests or force majeure is involved. If nationalization or expropria- tion occurs, adequate compensation is paid. Profits may be reinvested in local currency, held in Azer- baijan, or converted into foreign currency and transferred without restriction. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30 percent are entitled to a two-year holi- day on profit taxes; imports and exports of goods and services may be undertaken without licenses; and exporters of manufactured goods are allowed to retain 100 percent of their exchange earnings. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1993 Prescription of Currency February 1. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Exports November 30. The regulations governing surren- der of export proceeds were amended. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 1. The annual limit on purchases of foreign currency for travel abroad granted with travel doc- uments was raised to $2,000; up to $500 may be purchased without documentation. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The manat became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 32,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £stg. 1. A stamp tax of 1.5 percent is applied to all outward remittances. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium above the offi- cial market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas when the resident is due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a con- tractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements without the Central Bank's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward with nonresidents without prior approval from the Central Bank. Com- mercial banks may deal forward among themselves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their, open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no forward cover arrangements in the official sector. !Foreign currency that the Central Bank permits to be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permis- sion may exist for foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securi- ties; or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of prop- erty; or direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. In 1992, the volume of trans- actions in this market amounted to less than $1 million. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 5,1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including payments for imports up to B$100,000; approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.2 Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the police department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for win- ter residents and for persons with residency per- mits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident com- panies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval of the Central Bank. Balances may be con- 2 Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 THE BAHAMAS verted freely into foreign currency and transfesrred abroad.4 Accounts credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are des- ignated as blocked accounts and are held mainly by emigrants. When the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a blocked account. Balances on blocked accounts are transfer- able through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the approval of the Central Bank, in certain resi- dent-held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health-related reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required to make payments for imports exceeding B$100,000, irrespective of ori- gin;5 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other rel- evant documents proving the existence of a pur- chase contract. Import duties = zero to 300 percent, depending on the type of good, and stamp duties on imports vary from 2 percent to 22 percent. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers may make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, edu- cation, freight, ships' disbursements, and insurance premiums within specified limits. Residents are enti- tled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance equivalent to B$l,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and to B$10,000 a per- son a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for for- 4 Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted tempo- rary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. 5 Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. eign exchange in excess of the official amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance is granted without a limit. Temporary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but if commitments outside The Baha- mas are more than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumu- lated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. A traveler may export Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not export the bank notes of any other country, except with specific approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for craw- fish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The pro- ceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the importation of foreign bank notes. The importation of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents do not require exchange control approval, although the subse- quent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Cen- tral Bank is required for any action whereby non- residents acquire control of or participate in an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 37 incorporated company controlled by residents. Res- ident individuals and companies require the spe- cific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts abroad.6 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue there- after. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval from the Central Bank, by foreign cur- rency purchased in the investment currency mar- ket, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a non- resident. Special procedures apply to investments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisition by For- eign Persons) Act of 1981, which came into effect on November 1,1983. Foreigners intending to purchase land must apply to the Foreign Investments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Government. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, per- mission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are per- mitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property per family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for per- sonal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the mainte- nance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with for- eign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances to non- resident beneficiaries under the wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permis- sion is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Immovable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act of 1981. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 per donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permis- sion, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, notably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of cer- tain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an external account, in funds eligible for credit to an external account, or in Bahamian dollars obtained by selling foreign currency in the official foreign exchange market. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange, export pro- ceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities in The Bahamas and all swaps in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the swap takes place, require permission from the Cen- tral Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Ster- ling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities. Sale proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the Cen- tral Bank by December 31,1972, are eligible for sale 6 Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7 Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securi- ties as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38_ THE BAHAMAS in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Gen- erally, they may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take their house- hold and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the offi- cial exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time. Once a person is redesignated a nonresident, income accru- ing from assets remaining in The Bahamas is remit- table at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain per- mission to pay interest on, and to repay the princi- pal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is con- ditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresi- dents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not allowed to raise working capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small pro- portion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local cur- rency borrowing is determined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is con- trolled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from resi- dents for either fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign cur- rency, and foreign currency loans are normally per- mitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license but are subject to an import duty of 35 percent. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to cus- toms is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.46190 per SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of ±7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a rela- tively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency; since December 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 per US$2.6596. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates to banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. The BMA does not deal with the public. On December 31, 1993, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark but are autho- rized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mil (special rates of commission apply for transac- tions up to BD 1,000). Bank rates for other curren- cies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rates against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of the banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 20,1973. Administration of Control The BMA is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Com- merce and Industry. Financial transactions with Libya are restricted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993), and those with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are restricted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 820 (1993). Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. In prac- tice, rice is imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities but are 20 percent on vehicles, 50 percent on tobacco, and 125 percent on alcoholic beverages. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10 percent for goods produced in Bah- rain and 5 percent for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, all products may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 BAHRAIN dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, except that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remit- tance of profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresi- dents, although transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2, 1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17,1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain approval from the BMA before they can register with the Ministry of Com- merce and Agriculture. Such businesses are subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent, in the case of gold, to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control December 5. Bahrain lifted the sanctions on trade and financial transactions with South Africa. Imports and Import Payments May 2. The monopoly of the Bahrain Export-Import Company over the importation of sugar was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket consisting of the cur- rencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31,1993, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 39.85 per US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 39.75 and Tk 39.95, respectively, per US$1. Bangladesh Bank deals with domestic authorized banks only in U.S. dollars and the cur- rencies of the member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (ACU).1 Authorized banks are free to set buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates for other currencies based on cross rates in international markets. Forward contracts are available from authorized banks, covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collec- tion of foreign shipping companies and airlines. For the currencies of ACU member countries, the autho- rized banks may, in turn, take forward cover from Bangladesh Bank against transactions entered into through forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks are permitted to retain working balances with their foreign correspondents. Currency swaps are not permitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The 6 foreign and 14 domestic commercial banks (of which 3 are nationalized), together with 2 joint- venture banks and 4 specialized financial institu- tions, have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are con- ducted through state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 must normally be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements, up to agreed value limits; settlements with these coun- tries may be made in convertible currencies for goods and services that are not specified in the agreements or that exceed the value ceilings speci- fied in the agreements. Payments to and receipts from the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected through the ACU in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU).3 Settlements with other countries nor- mally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through nonresident taka accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which impor- tation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the cur- rency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. All settle- ments with Israel, Iraq, South Africa, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- 2 Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, and Hungary. The Trading Company of Bangladesh maintains special trading agreements, with features of a bilateral payments arrangement, with compa- nies in Egypt and Germany. 3 The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording transactions through the ACU. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BANGLADESH nated nonresident accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be opened by authorized deal- ers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank for Bangladeshi nationals/foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account holder's absence by authorized dealers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Certain other deb- its and credits may be made without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank but are subject to ex post reporting. Convertible taka accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit organizations (including charitable organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, UN organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and for- eign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status) are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at anytime for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible cur- rencies. Transfers between convertible taka accounts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign air- line and shipping companies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned can be disbursed only in local currency. Foreign currency accounts of Bangladeshi nationals working abroad. Bangladeshi nationals and persons of Bangladeshi origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remit- tances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal chan- nels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (bank notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign cur- 4 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. rency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme (WES); and (4) transfers from non- resident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without restriction, but debits for the following purposes must be reported to Bangladesh Bank: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other foreign currency accounts opened under the WES; (3) payments for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) pay- ments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures up to prescribed limits abroad for business or pri- vate purposes. Nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Ban- gladeshi nationals residing abroad; foreign nation- als, companies, and firms registered or incor- porated abroad; banks and other financial institu- tions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladeshi missions and government insti- tutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign cur- rency deposit accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited in initial minimum amounts of $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in convertible currencies and transfers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladeshi nationals abroad. The balance, includ- ing interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangladeshi nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. Resident foreign currency deposit (RFCD) accounts. Resident Bangladeshis, at the time of their return from travel abroad, may bring in any amount of for- eign currency with a declaration and up to $2,500 or the equivalent without a declaration and may maintain an RFCD account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commis- sions arising from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in U.S. dol- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 43 lars and pounds sterling. Exporters and local joint-venture firms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplo- matic missions in Bangladesh, their expatriates, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by an annual IPO announced by the Government. The controlled list contains 107 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Har- monized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are pro- duced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes. Items not specified in the IPO are freely importable, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Con- troller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without an import license. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or pay- ments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Goods must be shipped within 17 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts and 9 months in the case of all other items. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Recognized export-oriented ready-made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis of up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization from Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The enti- tlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appearing on the controlled list. Separately, industrial consumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Authorized dealers may establish letters of credit on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of Ban- gladesh Bank, subject to the following conditions: (1) cost of goods, cost of freight, and insurance will be accommodated within the amount recorded in the LCAF issued in favor of the importer; (2) cost of freight will be paid locally out of the LCAF value in local currency; and (3) other directives of the IPO will be duly complied with. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval from Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for family main- tenance and primary and secondary education abroad are considered individually. For medical treatment, up to $10,000 can be obtained without prior approval; for larger amounts, the total amount required is granted, subject to the approval from Bangladesh Bank. The indicative allowance for personal travel by resident Bangladeshi nation- als to countries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $2,500 a year; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $500 a person a year. Larger amounts are available upon verification by Bangladesh Bank of the bona fide nature of the request. New export- ers may obtain up to $6,000 for business travel without prior authorization. Exporters maintaining retention accounts may use the funds on these accounts to cover travel expenses abroad without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BANGLADESH family maintenance of more than 50 percent of net salaries if the Government approves the terms ofemployment; up to 50 percent of salary and the entire amount of leave salary and savings can be freely remitted. No prior permission is required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6 percent of sales; training and consultancy fees of up to 1 percent of sales; and fees for undergradu- ate, postgraduate, and some professional courses. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their departure; if they made no declaration, they may reconvert up to $150. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted. A Bangladeshi or a for- eign national may take out Tk 300 in domestic cur- rency; otherwise, the exportation of Bangladeshi currency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit divi- dends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank, on receipt of applications from the companies concerned; appli- cations must be supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolu- tion declaring dividends out of profit derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax liabilities are cov- ered. Authorized dealers may remit profits of for- eign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh to their head office on receipt of applications sup- ported by documentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of jute and jute goods must be registered with Bangladesh Bank. Export- ers of products with a low value added are permit- ted to retain 5 percent, and of other products 10 percent, of the proceeds from exports; they may use retained earnings for bona fide business pur- poses, such as business travel abroad, participation in trade fairs and seminars, and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. They may also be used to set up offices abroad without prior permission from Bangladesh Bank. Joint ventures, other than in the garment indus- try, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and place the remaining 30 percent in a bank account in domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services are permitted to retain 5 percent of the proceeds and use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes. Bangladeshi nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident for- eign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by Bangladesh Bank, all Bangladeshi nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an autho- rized dealer within one month of the date of acqui- sition. However, returning residents may keep up to $2,500 without declaration, on hand or in a for- eign currency account opened in their name. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to sur- render within one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or ser- vices rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The importation of Bangladeshi currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 300 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers, including Bangladeshi nationals working abroad, up to $5,000 without declaration and up to any amount without limit, provided the amount brought in is declared upon arrival in Bangladesh. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted for resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, includ- ing foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh must be declared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshi nationals. However, Bangladeshi residents may continue to maintain foreign currency accounts opened during their stay abroad. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh. The issuing and transfer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 45 of shares and securities in favor of nonresidents against foreign investment or inward remittance are allowed without the prior permission of Ban- gladesh Bank. The transfer of Bangladeshi shares and securities from one nonresident holder to another nonresident holder also does not require prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident persons and institutions, including nonresident Bangladeshis, may buy Bangladeshi shares and securities through stock exchanges in Bangladesh against freely convertible foreign currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Pro- ceeds from sales including capital gain and divi- dends earned on the shares or securities bought in this manner may be remitted abroad in freely con- vertible currency. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Private sector industrial units in Bangladesh may borrow funds from abroad without the approval of the Board of Investment, if the interest rate does not exceed 4 percent above the LIBOR, the repayment period is not less than seven years, and the down payment is not more than 10 percent- industrial units in the export promotion zones, including foreign-owned and joint ventures, may obtain short-term foreign loans without prior approval. Borrowing by other nonresident-owned or -controlled enterprises and lending by autho- rized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh require approval from Bangladesh Bank. Authorized deal- ers may grant, without reference to Bangladesh Bank and according to the banking norms, an unlimited amount of loans in domestic currency to foreign-owned manufacturing companies located in Bangladesh. Authorized dealers may also approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for exportation from Bangladesh to companies controlled by persons residing outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign cur- rencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally per- mitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. When their work in Bangladesh is finished, expa- triate workers may transfer their savings abroad, provided that their salaries and benefits were ini- tially certified by the Board of Investment. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The act provides for the protection and equi- table treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. With the exception of a few reserved sectors, private foreign investment is freely allowed. For a new investment, foreign investors are gen- erally required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on the location. All invest- ments in which the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 percent require the approval of the Investment Board. Nonresidents must also obtain the permis- sion of Bangladesh Bank to continue to operate or to establish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the purpose of trading or for commercial or indus- trial activities. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver are prohibited without special permission. However, Bangladeshi women are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Exports of gold jewelry are also allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or sil- ver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and sil- ver in all other forms except by licensed industrial- ists or dentists. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 26. The dealings of Bangladesh Bank with domestic authorized banks were restricted to U.S. dollars and the currencies of member countries of the ACU. Authorized banks were allowed to set freely buying and selling rates. August 8. The spread between the buying and selling rates of Bangladesh Bank was widened to Tk 0.20 per US$1 from Tk 0.10. August 14. Bangladesh Bank stopped providing forward cover for currencies other than U.S. dollars and those of member countries of the ACU. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 Prescription of Currency BANGLADESH December 31. The bilateral payment arrangement with China was terminated. Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 5. Local and joint-venture firms executing projects financed by foreign donors or international agencies were allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts. July 26. New nonresident foreign currency depos- its would no longer receive a premium interest rate. Balances in accounts opened under the WES may be transferred abroad without restriction. July 26. Deposits of Bangladeshi nationals return- ing from abroad in foreign currency accounts were permitted to be held indefinitely. Payments for Invisibles February 4. Resident foreign nationals were allowed to freely remit up to 50 percent of salary and the entire amount of leave salary and savings. February 4. Prior approval from Bangladesh Bank would not be required for remittances of royalties and technical fees of up to 6 percent of the previous year's sale proceeds/cost of imported machinery and for remittances of consultancy fees of up to 1 percent of sales. March 3. Prior approval from Bangladesh Bank would not be required for remittances of fees for university and certain professional courses. May 3. Prior permission from Bangladesh Bank would not be required to obtain foreign exchange for medical expenses abroad up to $10,000. May 3. Allowances for personal travel abroad were raised and made indicative (effective from July 26, larger amounts would be granted upon submission of documentary proof indicating bona fide nature of request). May 3. Prior approval from Bangladesh Bank would not be required for remittances of profits by foreign shipping companies and airlines. Capital May 3. Industrial units operating in the export processing zones (joint venture or fully foreign owned) were allowed to obtain short-term foreign currency loans without prior approval from Ban- gladesh Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. They include commission charges of 0.125 percent buy- ing and 1.75 percent selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 1.8125 percent sell- ing against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Bar- bados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.5020 and BDS$1.5322, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.1512 and BDS$1.1743, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$2.9514 and BDS$3.0106, respec- tively, per £stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank currently sells currencies of only three Caribbean Common Mar- ket (CARICOM) countries1; these are the Guyana dol- lar, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar and the Jamaica dollar now float against the U.S. dollar, and the Central Bank fixes daily selling rates based on rates supplied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to govern- ment transactions. All selling rates fixed by the Cen- tral Bank in respect of CARICOM currencies include a commission of 0.125 percent. The Central Bank purchases Eastern Caribbean dollar notes only. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of curren- cies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commission that the commercial banks may charge their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allow- ances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500, and certain other items) are subject to a lrThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. levy collected in the approval process by the Cen- tral Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central Government's exchange risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Com- mercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The Central Bank and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Barbados formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 3,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve nor- mal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system stipulates that foreign exchange should normally be surren- dered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transac- tions between residents of Barbados and persons who are residents of South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an exter- nal account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, must be made either through external accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars and U.S. dollar traveler's checks to 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 BARBADOS Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from September 21, 1991 and April 13, 1993, the Bank of Jamaica and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago abolished exchange control in Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, respectively; as a result, settlements with residents of Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago are made in U.S. dollars. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies foreign currency accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without consulting the Central Bank. These accounts, maintained in Barbados dol- lars, may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other exter- nal accounts, with bank interest (payable on exter- nal accounts or blocked accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payment covered by delegated authority to authorized deal- ers. Other debits and any overdrafts require indi- vidual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARlCOM countries require individual licenses. Import-licens- ing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restric- tions. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while oth- ers are subject to temporary restrictions (particu- larly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Certain imports are pro- hibited, including various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list" of garments that may be imported only if they have a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the pro- visions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricul- tural commodities. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent, the same range as the Common External Tariff (CET) of the CARICOM region. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release foreign currency up to the equivalent of BD$20,000 (c.i.f.) for advance payments for imports into Barbados. Other advance payments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, payments for all commercial trans- actions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain personal and sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel inside or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel inside the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses for education abroad (BDS$20,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 49 pers and magazines (BD$500 a person a year), income tax refunds, official payments, and life insur- ance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destina- tion may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Any person traveling to a destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are sub- ject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents returning to Barbados are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an autho- rized dealer. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct investments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and real estate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred tononresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare the assets they hold in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is sub- mitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged, and the original investment was registered with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Non- residents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Cap- ital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. A 6 percent tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 BARBADOS not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. eries; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Other- wise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities, autho- rized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Labor, Agriculture, Food, and Fish- Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement November 3. Barbados formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. January 18. Commercial banks were allowed to sell U.S. dollar traveler's checks to persons traveling to destinations within the CARICOM area. Administration of Control September 28. Barbados lifted certain economic sanctions against South Africa. (Enabling legisla- tion was enacted on March 17,1994). Imports and Import Payments April 1. The Common External Tariff (CET) was lowered to the range of 5-35 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangements The currency of Belarus consists of the Russian Ruble and Belarussian Ruble, both of which are legal tender.1 Settlement notes of the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus (NBB) are convertible into their ruble equivalent at par value at the rate of one settlement note per 10 rubles. Conversion of noncash Belarussian ruble balances into cash is restricted, but the rate for the Belarussian rubel is significantly more depreciated in the parallel mar- ket. Since November 1992, noncash Belarussian rubles have been floating against other currencies. Until December 29,1993, the exchange rate system in respect of convertible currencies consisted of two rates. The exchange rate prevailing at the foreign exchange auctions was applied to all official transac- tions and for valuation purposes a special invest- ment rate was applied. Until July 31,1993, the special investment rate was applied to the sale of foreign exchange for foreign direct investment in Belarus and export proceeds surrendered to the State Foreign Exchange Fund; after August 1,1993, the investment rate was applied only to export contracts concluded before July 1993, and it was abolished on December 29, 1993. On December 31, 1993, the mar- ket exchange rate was Belarussian ruble 6,980 per US$1. Since November 1992, a distinction drawn between noncash Belarussian rubles and noncash Russian rubles from the states of the former U.S.S.R. has led to a differentiation between cash and noncash exchange rates. Since November 1992, auctions of noncash ruble balances have been con- ducted. At the end of 1993, the exchange rate was Belarussian noncash rubles 4.51 per Russian non- cash ruble 1. For certain nontrade related transac- tions, the exchange rate of Belarussian ruble 1 to Russian ruble 1 is used. During April-September 1993, 100 percent of Russian ruble deposits and those from the states of the former U.S.S.R. earned from exports have been required to be surrendered to the State Fund for Russian rubles administered by the NBB at the exchange rate announced by the NBB based on the previous auction rate. Since October 1993 these funds have been required to be deposited in special accounts with Belarussian 1 Noncash balances are referred to as Belarussian rubles, and the term "rubel" is used to refer to the local coupon. banks and be sold at the auction within 20 days if they were not used for energy imports. Foreign investors must pay a 15 percent tax in con- vertible currency on income received as a result of the distribution of profit remittances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. Administration of Control The Parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for administering them. The country's official foreign exchange reserves are controlled by the Council of Ministers and the NBB. Local governments control the local foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange for official import payments is administratively allo- cated through the state and local government foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange regulations to vest the NBB with greater authority to control official foreign exchange reserves and to implement exchange rate policy are under preparation. Only commercial banks may obtain licenses to engage in foreign exchange transactions. Of the 25 commercial banks operating in Belarus, 13 of them hold a general license,2 which enables them to open correspondent accounts outside the former U.S.S.R., whereas 4 hold a domestic license,3 which enables them to conduct transactions outside the former U.S.S.R. through the 13 banks. Commercial banks are allowed to trade the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. Enterprises may obtain permission to open foreign exchange offices, to sell goods, and render services for freely convertible currency within the Republic of Belarus. Prescription of Currency Payments with countries with which Belarus has bilateral payments agreements are effected in the currencies specified in these agreements and in 2 Brestkombank, Poisk Bank, Bel Business Bank, Prior Bank, Dukat Bank, Belarus Bank, Belrnescheconombank, Belpromstroi- bank, Savings Bank, Belagroprombank, Vestbank, Commer- cia-Bank, and Complet 3 Domestic in this context refers to the territories of the states of the former U.S.S.R. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 BELARUS accordance with their regulations.4 The agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. provide for set- tlement through bilateral clearing accounts held with central banks or authorized commercial banks. Set- tlement is to take place in convertible currencies, national currencies, or rubles; a number of states of the former U.S.S.R. have signed an agreement (in October 1992) that they will use only the ruble in nonbarter transactions among themselves. Foreign trade payments outside this sphere are made in con- vertible currency. A significant share of trade is con- ducted in the framework of barter agreements. An attempt is being made to balance the trade with a cash trading partner, but if an imbalance emerges, they are settled, in principle, with deliveries of goods or in convertible currency. Since September 9, 1992, barter trade of certain goods has required approval from the Commission of the Council of Ministers on the Issuance of Authorization to Engage in Com- modity-Exchange Operations. Payment in foreign currency for goods and ser- vices (including wage payments) in transactions among residents5 is only allowed with a special permit from the NBB. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks in Belarus authorized to handle foreign exchange (authorized banks). Residents may maintain bank accounts abroad only with the permission of the NBB. Foreign exchange received by resident juridical persons as a result of foreign economic activities must be repatriated to accounts of authorized banks in Belarus, unless oth- erwise authorized by the NBB. Nonresident juridical persons may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad, proceeds from sales of goods and ser- vices in the ruble area to residents and nonresi- dents, debt-service payments, interest earned on balances in the accounts, funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus, and earnings from investments in the states of the former U.S.S.R. These accounts may be debited for 4At the end of 1993, Belarus maintained bilateral trade and /or payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Finland, Hungary, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Slovenia, and Viet Nam. Bilateral clearing accounts have been established with all of the states of the former U.S.S.R. 5 The term encompasses residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. that use the ruble, including the Russian Federation. purchases of goods and services and for invest- ments in the states of the former U.S.S.R. as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or exchanged for Belarussian rubles at the unified exchange rate through the authorized banks. Nonresident juridical persons may also open two types of accounts in the official currency of Belarus at authorized commercial banks. The first type, "L" accounts, may be credited with the ruble counter- part of foreign exchange sold to the NBB or autho- rized banks; dividends from foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures; returns on securities; and from sales of such securities within Belarus. Funds from these accounts are freely usable in the ruble area and may be converted into foreign cur- rency at the unified exchange rate. The second type, "N" accounts, may be funded by proceeds from the sale of goods produced in Belarus or received from residents. Balances in these accounts may be used only for business travel expenses; to purchase inputs used for production of goods for export from Belarus; to purchase foreign exchange at the free exchange rate at auctions (up to the limit of the nonresidents' initial investment plus proceeds from sales of their output in Belarus); for payment of wages; and for investment purposes according to the procedures established by legislation. Imports and Exports Trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. is conducted (1) under intergovernmental agree- ments; (2) through intermediation by former minis- tries or other agencies involved in resource distribution; (3) through interenterprise deals; and (4) through commodity exchanges. The bilateral trade agreements Belarus maintains with other countries include an appendix that spec- ifies in volume terms the amounts of about 150 products to be delivered during the period covered by the agreement. The signatory governments guar- antee that the specified volumes will be provided to the partner country. In most cases, the guarantee takes the form of state orders if corresponding state orders are in effect in the partner country.6 Defense-related goods are excluded from trade agreements. Trade in these products that exceeds the volume specified in the appendices and trade in products not included in the appendices of the trade agree- ments are mainly conducted as follows. The minis- 6 Enterprises that produce for state orders have priority access to products imported under trade agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 53 tries, agencies, or self-financing wholesale trade organizations involved in controlling resource dis- tribution periodically collect information on the demand and supply conditions regarding the prod- ucts that fall in their respective areas of responsibil- ity. They submit this information to their counterparts in the other states to match with their lists. When trade takes place, the individual enter- prises and organizations negotiate the terms of delivery. Convertible currency proceeds from exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. are subject to the same taxes and surrender requirements as those received from other countries. Inconvertible cur- rency proceeds must be repatriated and deposited in special accounts with Belarussian banks and used for payments of imports. If deposits are not used within 20 days, they must be sold through auctions held by the NBB. Resident natural and juridical persons must obtain a license to engage in foreign economic activities (licenses are issued by the Committee on Foreign Economic Relations). With the exception of goods on a short negative list (comprising mainly arms and drugs), these licensed agents may trade in any product. Residents do not need a license or approval from the NBB to conduct foreign exchange operations related to trade, except for (1) down payments for imports or services exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent that represent more than 30 percent of the value of the goods or services imported; (2) import payments or export receipts not effected within 180 days of the date of shipment;7 and (3) interest payments to nonresidents on returned down payments when an original contract is not fulfilled. Licenses or approvals for these exceptions are granted by the NBB on a case-by-case basis. Imports of the following products require a license: medicines, herbicides, industrial waste, movie films, and imports conducted in the frame- work of intergovernmental trade agreements. Since January 1, 1993, 20 percent of all foreign exchange proceeds have been required to be surren- dered to the State Foreign Exchange Fund at the special investment rate.8 In addition, exporting enterprises pay a tax to the State Foreign Exchange Fund in the amount of 10 percent of foreign exchange proceeds. Until September 1993, retained foreign exchange could be freely used by the exporting enterprise for import payments without any time limit. Since October 1,1993, all enterprises have been required to sell 20 percent of their earn- ings in freely convertible currency at the interbank foreign exchange auction. Barter transactions have been taxed at a rate of 10 percent of the contract value of the product. Sale profits were reduced by the aforementioned tax paid in foreign exchange, for both export and commodity exchange. In addi- tion, since January 1, 1993, export taxes ranging between 2 percent and 10 percent, except for unprocessed leather and intermediate leather prod- ucts, have been applied to foreign trade, including barter. Exports of goods on the "vital goods" list require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers. In addi- tion, the Council of Ministers distributed export quotas among regulatory organizations and major producing enterprises, associations, and "firms."9 The exportation of energy and raw materials under barter arrangements is subject to administrative control by the Commission of the Council of Minis- ters on the Issuance of Authorization to Engage in Commodity-Exchange Operations. A new import tax structure was introduced on October 6, 1993 with Resolution No. 672 of the Council of Ministers. Taxes are levied on products traded under barter arrangements and on a cash basis. The rates range from 10 percent to 90 percent. The highest rate is applicable to some old automo- biles, and the 80 percent rate is charged on whiskey, gin, and some other alcoholic beverages. Unpro- cessed leather and intermediate leather products are taxed at 30 percent and 15 percent respectively. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident individuals may purchase annually for- eign exchange for tourist travel up to an amount equivalent to 25 times the minimum wage at the free market exchange rate; for travel to the states of the former U.S.S.R., the limit is 50 times the minimum wage. Larger amounts may be taken out with customs declaration proof that they were brought into Belarus or with a certificate from an authorized bank that they were exchanged legally. Purchases of foreign exchange for education, medical treatment, family maintenance, repatriation of salaries and wages, pay- ments of insurance premiums, profit remittances, and purchases exceeding $10,000 require approval from the NBB. Salaries and wages earned by foreign nation- 7 This exception also applies to cosignatory agreements, barter and compensatory deals, and re-exports. 8 Joint ventures with foreign ownership exceeding 30 percent and exporting their own products are exempt. 9 The former Soviet Union's overall quota on exports of tex- tiles to the members of the European Union was distributed among the states of the former U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BELARUS als employed in joint-venture enterprises may be remitted abroad without restriction. Post-1992 Russian bank notes up to Rub 500 may be taken abroad or brought into the country when traveling to the states of the former U.S.S.R.; for travel to the Baltic states and other countries the limit is Belarussian rubel 100,000. Residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. may pay for air and train tickets as well as hotel expenses in Russian rubles; nonresidents may be required to pay for these expenses in convertible currency. Capital The properties owned by foreign investors in Belarus are protected from expropriation.10 Foreign investors are guaranteed full freedom to repatriate their initial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Repatriation of profits is subject to a tax of 15 percent payable in convertible currency. Foreign investment must be registered with the Committee on Foreign Economic Relations and, in the case of financial institutions, also at the NBB. At the time of registration, the enterprise obtains a license to engage in activities in a particular area of special- ization and may not pursue other activities. The proportion of equity capital share by nonresidents in direct investments is not restricted, except in the financial sector, where it cannot exceed 50 percent. Joint-venture enterprises are free to set their own product prices. They may participate in foreign exchange auctions and commodity exchange trans- actions through authorized banks. Nonresidents may take part in auctions of state property with their own funds. However, special coefficients that raise the price of state property for nonresidents are set by the Committee of State Property. The coefficients are set by the Council of Ministers, or their local agencies, and the Ministry of Finance and are announced to participants before auctions take place. Enterprises with more than 30 percent foreign capital ownership are permitted to export a certain proportion of their output and import inputs neces- sary for their production without restriction. These enterprises are exempted from the profit tax for three years from the first year the enterprise reports a profit. If the enterprise is deemed to be essential for the economy of Belarus by the Council of Minis- ters, the income tax rate may be reduced by 50 percent for an additional three years. 10The law on Foreign Investment of the Supreme Soviet (dated November 14, 1991) guarantees that terms offered to foreign investors would remain unchanged for at least five years. External borrowings by residents must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Finance, and the opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the NBB. Gold A license is required for the exportation of gold, which is on the shortlist of products (together with arms, radioactive materials, and narcotics) under the strictest licensing requirements. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 4. The exchange rate system in respect of convertible currencies was simplified to consist of the interbank market auction rate and the foreign investment rate. July 29. New rules for the interbank market in convertible currencies were introduced. Only trans- actions involving less than $5,000 would be con- ducted directly between a bank and its client. (The limit was reduced to $1,000 in October 1993.) Larger amounts would have to be traded through auctions conducted by the NBB. August 1. The investment rate was abolished, except for export contracts concluded before July 1993. December 29. The investment rate was abolished for all transactions. Imports and Exports March 1. Inconvertible currency proceeds from the states of the former U.S.S.R. were subject to a 100 percent surrender requirement. June 1. Import and export taxes were amended (Resolution No. 419). September 27. The surrender requirement for inconvertible currency proceeds from the states of the former U.S.S.R. was abolished, and these pro- ceeds were required to be repatriated and deposited in special accounts with Belarussian banks. The deposits may be used to pay for energy imports. If they are not used within 20 days, they must be sold through auctions held by the NBB. October 1. All enterprises were required to sell 20 percent of their earnings in convertible currency at the interbank foreign exchange auction. October 6. A new import tax structure was intro- duced (Resolution No. 672). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accor- dance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxem- bourg maintain spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).2 The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31,1993, these rates were as follows: 100 100 100 Specified Intervention Rates Per: Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 1 100 100 100 Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 627.8800 465.6650 2,395.2000 1,776.2000 714.0300 529.6600 57.7445 42.8260 2,125.6000 1,576.4500 24.2120 17.9570 30.2715 22.4510 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1993, lrThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16,1992, and Italy withdrew on September 17,1992. 2 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 55 the indicative middle rate for the U.S. dollar was BF 36.11 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The Belgian- Luxembourg Administrative Commission has the authority to license trade transactions; it deter- mines import and export policy but has delegated authority to issue import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union (BLEU), one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exer- cised by the Banking and Finance Commission and in Luxembourg by the Luxembourg Monetary Insti- tute (LMI). For purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics, residents are required to transmit to the Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI) the following information on all of their professional transactions with foreign countries: amount, cur- rency, economic nature, and country of residence of the foreign party in the transaction. For foreign pay- ments executed or received through a bank in Bel- gium or Luxembourg, residents provide this information to the BLEI through their banks; for all other professional foreign transactions, residents report to the BLEI directly on a monthly basis. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam;3 and (2) certain 3 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of prod- ucts that originate in and are shipped from these countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG specified imports from all other countries,4 includ- ing many textile and steel products, certain agricul- tural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, diamonds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other EU countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the Multi- fiber Arrangement (MFA) and also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign bank notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for a few prod- ucts, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural and iron and steel products. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Domestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg franc or for- eign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits from residents or nonresidents. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies.5 Bonds denominated in Belgium or Luxembourg francs may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital market. After they are issued, they are reported to the Luxembourg Monetary Institute, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins and bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Settlements of gold may be made freely. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are sub- ject to a 1 percent value-added tax in Belgium. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The intervention threshold of the Bel- gium and Luxembourg francs in the ERM of the EMS was widened temporarily from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rate, which remained unchanged. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) 4 Most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the European Union (EU). 5 Since January 1,1991, this approval is no longer needed if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EU country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 per US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$2.69 and BZ$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a num- ber of currencies of member countries of CARICOM.1 A stamp du ty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conver- sions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Belize accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14,1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for administering exchange control, which applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is ref- erence made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry administers trade controls. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. l rThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars, and U.S. dollars. Banks must have permission from the Central Bank to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may also stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp du ty of 12 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a per- son, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of for- eign currency; and (4) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Foreign exchange is provided for payment of correspondence courses by the authorized deal- ers when applications are properly documented. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BELIZE except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these lim- its require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are sub- ject to an ad valorem export du ty of 5 percent. Re-exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Bel- ize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but imports of for- eign currency are not restricted. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. Direct foreign investment is encouraged, and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1993 3 Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild ani- mals. For sugar, the export du ty is 2 percent. No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris-exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The matu- rity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Como- ros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign coun- tries. For certain controls relating to capital flows, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, in collaboration with the BCEAO, draws up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, and the Postal Administra- tion, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions ]The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) State signatories to the Lome Convention and from member countries of European Union (EU) and Operations Account countries have been abolished. Upon the recommendation of the Direc- torate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Min- istry of Finance, exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious metals require authoriza- tion from the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Certain settlements with China and specified socialist countries, however, are made through spe- cial accounts.2 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts As the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of bank notes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts may not be cred- ited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized intermediary bank's foreign correspondent. Nonresident accounts in francs may not be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 BENIN Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Certain agencies have an import monopoly over specified commodities. Imports of goods originating in the EU, the Oper- ations Account countries, and countries belonging to the ACP group are free of import-licensing requirements. All merchandise imports originating in other countries are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Before ship- ment, goods from all sources are subject to inspec- tion for quality and price. All imports valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Importers may not purchase foreign exchange to pay for imports earlier than eight days before suppliers ship the goods if a documentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of pay- ment if the goods have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of Monetary and Finan- cial Affa irs of the Ministry of Finance, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized intermediary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to prior authorization. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone other than WAMU member countries are allowed to take out the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in bank notes other than the CFA franc; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of pay- ment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the Ministry of Finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning res- ident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at cus- toms and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Upon departure, all resident travelers, when travel- ing to countries that are not members of WAMU, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export all means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to doc- umentation that they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exporta- tion of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresi- dent deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the net salary of a foreigner work- ing in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries, including the Oper- ations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of articles with a small gold con- tent, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irre- spective of their face value and denomination). Prior authorization for exports of these three prod- uct categories is granted by the Directorate of Mon- etary and Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance. Receipts from exports must be collected ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 61 within 180 days of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. Proceeds must be repatriated to Benin through the BCEAO and sold to authorized banks within 30 days of the contractual due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account area.3 Resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval from the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these 3 Effective August 1,1993, the repurchase of CFAF notes of the BCEAO in circulation outside member countries of the WAMU was suspended. measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and for- eign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Opera- tions Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of the investments must be financed from foreign borrowing. Foreign direct investments in Benin5 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The minister may request the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquida- tion of either type of investment also requires decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise. Investment that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange is not considered direct investment. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BENIN authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) stipulates that preferential status may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism that are deemed to contribute to national develop- ment. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved investors under two regimes: the preferential and the special regimes. The preferential regime consists of three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies to small and medium-size enterprises; Category B, to large enterprises; and Category C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under Category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million and employ at least five per- manent Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from customs duties and levies on equip- ment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes), as well as from income tax for five to nine years depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. Enterprises qualifying for Category B must undertake investments valued at more than CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion) and employ at least 20 Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from virtually all bor- der taxes on imports of equipment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the investment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enterprises qualifying for Category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as Cat- egory B enterprises. In addition, enterprises in this category are guaranteed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million that provide services in health, education, or public works. They benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applica- ble border taxes (excluding the local roads and sta- tistical taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their operations. The modalities of imple- menting this legislation are set out in Decree No. 91-2 of January 4,1991. Gold Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the Directorate of Monetary and Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Finance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and pre- cious and semiprecious materials. In practice, resi- dents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori- zation from the Minister of Commerce and Tour- ism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minis- ter. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement December 30. Benin (and the other member coun- tries of the WAMU) introduced, effective January 1, 1994, a bank commission of up to a maximum of 2 percent on the exchange of CFA francs issued by the BCEAO against French francs. Payments for Invisibles August 2. Benin (and other member countries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BCEAO) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The guaranteed convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through autho- rized credit institutions remained in effect. Follow- ing this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the mem- ber countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and travel to coun- tries outside the franc zone. For travel to franc zone countries other than members of the WAMU (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regu- lations established limits on the amount of bank notes that travelers may take out (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes for the equivalent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BEN IN 63 amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Larger amounts can be taken out only in a form of means of payment other than bank notes. On departure, travelers are required to declare in writ- ing all means of payment in their possession. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the WAMU member countries increased the previous limits as follows: (1) for tourist travel, the limit was raised to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 without restriction on the number of trips or the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limit was increased to the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of the equiva- lent of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allow- ances can be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the respective minis- tries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; (4) credit cards, which have to be issued by finan- cial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the Ministry of Finance by the respective ministries of finance, could be used up to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourist and business travel to non-WAMU countries; and (5) the new regulations required that resident travelers of all WAMU coun- tries declare at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries that are not mem- bers of WAMU were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all means of payment denominated in for- eign exchange or in currency of a country of the CFA franc zone upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresi- dent traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations increased to a uniform limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restriction. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes exceeding these limits would require documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange and registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits maintained with local banks. December 20. Benin (and the other member coun- tries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of the BCEAO in circulation in BEAC countries. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum, the external value of which is pegged to the Indian rupee. Indian rupees also circulate in Bhutan at a rate of Nu 1 per Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than Indian rupees are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exchange rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 31.07 and Nu 31.67, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to the Royal Monetary Authority the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is charged with implementing the surrender requirements for pro- ceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Royal Monetary Authority, which has discretionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at one of four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Exports of antiques of Bhu- tanese origin require government approval. Pro- ceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees must be approved by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions must be approved by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Gold There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Imports and Import Payments Changes During 1993 All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees must have prior permission from the No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The exchange rate (the official selling rate) is deter- mined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. This official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of $5,000 or mul- tiples of this amount; the minimum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. On December 31,1993, the official selling rate was Bs 4.48 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Except for the require- ment to surrender the net proceeds from the expor- tation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. Successful bids chan- neled through the banking system are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not com- plying with the legal reserve requirement on depos- its at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auc- tion market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange mar- ket, in which the buying and selling exchange rates on December 31, 1993, were Bs 4.47 and Bs 4.49, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 5,1967. The Central Bank is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country con- cerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the exception of those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Restrictions on imports of sugar were eliminated on October 13,1992. A uniform tariff rate of 10 percent is applied to all goods except for books and printed materials, to which the rate of 2 percent is applied. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of 1.85 percent of the f .o.b. value of imports.1 Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Since July 26,1990, residents traveling by air to neighboring countries have been required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the tax on travel to other for- eign destinations is Bs 150. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Cen- tral Bank. Outward remittances of profit are gov- erned by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. 1 Effective February 14,1992, the charge on capital goods was raised to 5 percent for the following two years. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export transaction. Exports other than hydrocar- bons are subject to an inspection fee of 1.55 percent for nontraditional products and 1.6 percent for tra- ditional products. Nontraditional export products benefit from a duty drawback system, under which exporters may apply for reimbursement of actual duties paid by providing all pertinent documenta- tion or may opt for a simplified procedure under which reimbursement is made at the rate of 2 percent or 4 percent of export value, depending on the degree of processing of the products exported. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the commercial banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11,1983, finan- cial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or exter- nal lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29,1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade operations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guarantees, advances and acceptances, loans for required financing with their correspon- dents abroad, and other operations generally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law. In September 1990, the Investment Law of December 14,1981 was replaced by another investment law, under which domestic and foreign investors are treated equally (Law No. 1182 on Investment). The law is adminis- tered by the National Investment Institute. Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Law. Cer- tain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 3 percent on the gross value of sale of gold bullion (Supreme Decree No. 23394, February 3,1993). Changes During 1993 Gold February 3. A 3 percent tax was imposed on the gross value of exports of gold bullion (Supreme Decree No. 23394). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula. Its external value in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising the SDR and currencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31,1993, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar was P 2.5654 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 3.5224 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other dealing currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international mar- kets. For information only, middle rates are quoted for certain other currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. External loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990 have been protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Shar- ing Scheme; the scheme does not apply to new loans undertaken by parastatals subsequent to October 1, 1990. At the end of 1993, the scheme applied to 37 out- standing loans. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fully borne by the borrower, while the next 6 percent and the following 5 percent of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 basis, respectively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15 percent are fully borne by the Government. The scheme is sym- metrical in that the borrower and the Government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the commercial banks. Forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds derived from the exporta- tion of goods for at least three months and, in some cases, for up to six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of 1 Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swiss francs, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, European Currency Units, and SDRs. Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a for- eign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are gener- ally no import restrictions on goods moving among the five countries. The arrangement provides for the free movement of goods and the right of transit among members, as well as a common external tar- iff. Import permits are required for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agri- cultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import shipments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from exchange controls.3 Applications for forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account within six months of the date of exportation. Retention of export proceeds for up to one year to finance certain transactions may be per- mitted by the Bank of Botswana on a case-by-case 3 Since January 1,1994, remittances for payments of imports of goods and services have been handled by the commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Botswana. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BOTSWANA basis. The value of goods that can be given as gifts to nonresidents is limited to P 3,000 a year. A few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, require permits before they can be exported. The Bank of Botswana may authorize residents to maintain foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in cases where there is a proven commercial need for such a facility. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Capital Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits (i.e., basic exchange allowances) is delegated to commercial banks; any remittances in excess of basic exchange allowances must be referred to the Bank of Botswana for prior approval. Once the bona fide nature of applications has been established and all other requirements have been fulfilled by the applicant, remittances are approved. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel by permanent residents is the equivalent of P 24,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 12,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel by permanent and temporary residents is P 1,000 a day, up to a maxi- mum of P 70,000 a calendar year. Permanent resi- dents may use credit cards in Botswana for settlement of both pula and foreign currency liabili- ties; airline tickets may be purchased directly from travel agents or be remitted from abroad, and they are not counted as part of the annual travel allow- ance. The amount of unused foreign currency for travel that a resident may retain for future travel use is the equivalent of P 2,000 in currency or trav- eler's checks; any excess amount must be surren- dered within six months of the date of return. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent resi- dents to cover maintenance and incidental expenses other than fees or tuition is P 5,000 a month a per- son and P 7,500 a month a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. A temporary resi- dent employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad annually, without reference to the Bank of Botswana, P 25,000 or 65 percent of total eligible earnings, whichever is greater; the limit applicable to a self-employed temporary resident is P 50,000. The period during which temporary residents are allowed to remit their earnings abroad is a block of 36 months, or the period of employment, which- ever is shorter. Separately, travelers residing in Botswana may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in amounts of P 2,000 and P 5,000, a trip respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coins. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they brought in with them in addition to a maximum of P 500 a trip in domestic currency. Pension and life assurance funds may invest up to one-half of their funds abroad. Applications for investment abroad of other funds are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward direct investment in new or existing businesses is generally encouraged but must be financed with funds from external sources. On disinvestment by a nonresident, the Bank of Botswana allows immediate repatriation of pro- ceeds up to a maximum of P 50 million. The excess may be required to be repatriated in installments over a period not exceeding three years. Autho- rized dealers may approve remittances of divi- dends/profits without referring to the Bank of Botswana. Remittances of interim dividends are permitted only for companies listed in the Botswana Share Market. Inward portfolio invest- ment is also permitted in shares issued by compa- nies quoted in the Botswana Share Market, provided the funds for financing the acquisitions originate with a nonresident source. Nonresident- controlled companies incorporated in Botswana may make similar investments (referred to as inter- nal portfolio investments), which need not be financed with funds from external sources. In the case of both inward and internal portfolio invest- ments, a shareholder or his nominee may not acquire an interest in excess of 5 percent of the com- pany's paid-up stock. Total portfolio holdings by nonresidents, including nonresident-controlled companies, may not exceed 49 percent of the "free stock"of a local company, that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by direct investors. Nonresident-controlled companies may also invest with domestic currency funds in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Nonresident-con- trolled companies (including branches of foreign companies) are permitted to borrow locally to finance working capital requirements only up to P 500,000. Applications for local finance in excess of P 500,000 by nonresident-controlled companies may be considered by the Bank of Botswana, pro- vided that the resulting debt-equity ratio does not exceed 4:1. Borrowed funds may be used for work- ing capital purposes or for acquisition of new fixed assets (e.g., plant, machinery, equipment, and buildings); these funds may not be used to acquire financial assets. Equity is defined as paid-up capi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 69 tal, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employment. Any external bor- rowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Double taxation agree- ments exist between Botswana and South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigra- tion allowance of up to P 150,000 in addition to household and personal effects whose value does not exceed P 75,000. Applications for remittances in excess of these amounts are dealt with by the Bank of Botswana. Such remittances are normally autho- rized if the amount is not too large; if the amount is excessive, remittances may be permitted in install- ments over three years. Nonresident-controlled companies are allowed to invest domestically generated funds in pula as well as those from external sources in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Self-employed temporary residents may remit abroad up to 65 percent of the previous year's tax- able income, or P 50,000, whichever is greater. Changes During 1993 Exports and Export Proceeds December 9. It was announced that, effective Janu- ary 1, 1994, delegated authority to approve exports of personal and household effects of emigrants would be shifted from commercial banks to the Customs and Excise Department and that the limit on the value of goods that may be provided as gifts to nonresidents would be raised to P 3,000 a year. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 9. It was announced that a number of changes would be introduced to relax certain exchange controls, effective January 1,1994: (1) per- manent residents would be authorized to use credit cards in Botswana for settlement of pula and for- eign currency liabilities; {2) permanent residents would be permitted to purchase airline tickets and time-share units abroad, the costs of which would not be deducted from the annual travel allowance; (3) the travel allowances would be increased to the equivalent of P 24,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 12,000 for a child), and the allowance for busi- ness travel would be raised to P 1,000 a day, subject to an annual limit of P 70,000; (4) the monthly edu- cation living expenses for permanent residents were increased to P 5,000 a person or P 7,500 a fam- ily; and (5) the limit on allowance for medical treat- ment abroad was abolished. Capital December 9. It was announced that, effective Janu- ary 1, 1994, the limit on remittance for self- employed temporary residents would be increased to P 50,000, or 65 percent of the previous year's tax- able income, whichever is greater. Remittances for imports and external debt service may be made without reference to the Bank of Botswana, subject to appropriate documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro Real (CR$), the external value of which is determined by demand and supply in the interbank exchange mar- ket.1 Transactions in the exchange market are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies autho- rized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies and brokers deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks. The exchange rates are freely negotiated between the authorized institutions and their clients in all operations. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates in the interbank exchange market were CR$ 326.095 and CR$ 326.105, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates apply to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agree- ment countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies concerned in the international market. Foreign exchange transactions for amounts exceeding $100,000 are subject to brokerage fees, which are freely negotiated between parties. A financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios (IOF)) of 25 percent is lev- ied on exchange operations effected for the pay- ment of imports of services. Limits for the short position of banks are deter- mined according to the size of the bank's total net assets indicated in the financial demonstrations of June and December. No limit is imposed on the long position, but authorized banks must deposit overnight at the Central Bank of Brazil the amounts needed to eliminate overbought positions that exceed the equivalent of $10 million. The limit for the long position of brokers is fixed at $1 million; they may not maintain short position. The banks are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be settled within 2 working days for spot transactions or within 180 days for forward transactions. Banks may pay their clients a premium, corresponding to the expected variation of the domestic currency in relation to the currency subject of negotiation, by reason of for- ward operations. In addition, when an exchange lrThe cruzeiro real replaced the cruzeiro at a conversion rate of 1,000 cruzeiro to 1 cruzeiro real on August 1,1993. contract for forward settlement is concluded, banks can provide short-term financing to exporters by providing domestic currency in advance, before or after the shipment of goods. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is responsible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange controls, regu- lations affecting foreign capital, and the manage- ment of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The foreign trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, imple- mented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX), and carried out by the Technical Depart- ment of Commercial Interchange (DTIC). The Technical Department of Tariffs (DTT) of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism is respon- sible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DTT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance coordinates public sector import policy. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries2 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements and no special 2 Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 71 payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with SECEX, and goods may be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports are grouped into the fol- lowing three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate issued by DTIC; and (3) prohibited imports (luxury boats with an initial sale price of $3,500 or more, agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy). Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market within 180 days of settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the Government, auton- omous agencies, and public enterprises).3 Most imports require prior approval from the DTIC, which is usually given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items.4 DTIC is autho- rized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depend- ing on the product. DTIC issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import certificates for a num- ber of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed but before they clear customs. The importation of certain products requires the approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of $600 imported into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to 3 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the president, an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. 4 Selected imports are exempt from the prior approval require- ment, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the drawback scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. SECEX may approve applications for payment for imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evalu- ate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed and accrued interest may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and a payment schedule issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Exchange contracts may be settled within 180 days. The drafts, or letters of credit, relative to such contracts must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Official education and research institu- tions and the Ministry of Health may settle con- tracts within 360 days following the same rules. Exchange contracts for imports financed under let- ters of credit must be closed on the date of settle- ment or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Official education and research institutions and the Ministry for Health may settle exchange contracts up to 360 days prior to the maturity date. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Payments for current invisibles not covered by current regulations require approval from the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or .the FIRCE; remittances are authorized freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of $4,000 a month in the foreign exchange mar- ket. Brazilian residents may acquire foreign exchange in the exchange market to participate in trade shows abroad. The limit for educational expenses is $4,000, and that for health care expenses is $100,000 plus $150 a day for incidental expenses for the patient and up to three attendants. Personal expenses for travel abroad may be obtained up to $4,000 a person, irrespective of age ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BRAZIL or destination, in the foreign exchange market. In addition, the use of credit cards up to a limit of $8,000 a card a month is permitted. These limits are not applied to travelers to MERCOSUR countries. Applications for larger purchases of foreign exchange for travel must be submitted to the Cen- tral Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Brazilian officials traveling abroad in the interest of the Government are granted allowances deter- mined by their respective agencies. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks and for technical, scientific, and admin- istrative assistance are registered with the FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amorti- zation payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to the withholding income tax at a rate of 15 percent or at the rate determined by the agreements concluded with the country con- cerned for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts; amounts exceeding this limit are consid- ered profits. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- actions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes without restriction but must declare to customs any values over $10,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Foreign tourists leaving Brazil may buy foreign currency up to 50 percent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods require the prior approval of SECEX, while exports of others, such as hides of wild animals in any form, are prohibited. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. In January, the authorities introduced a computerized system of export-licensing customs clearance and exchange clearance controls. This Integrated Foreign Trade System (Sistema Integrada de Comercio Exterior—SISCOMEX), introduced by the Decree No. 660, dated September 25, 1992 and implemented on January 4, 1993, integrates the activities related to registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations in a single com- puterized flow of information. SISCOMEX com- prises, basically, two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem has eliminated, for more than 90 percent of Brazilian exports, all paper- work (forms, licenses, and certificates), allowing exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of SECEX, cus- toms, and the Central Bank. Foreign exchange contracts covering transac- tions may be concluded either 180 days before the goods are shipped or within 180 days of shipment and must be settled within 5 working days of pay- ment abroad. Pre-export financing may be obtained either through a local bank against exchange con- tracts up to a maximum period of 180 days or through the foreign supplier who may prepay for imports before the goods arrive. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes but must declare to cus- toms any values over $10,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Capital Brazilian banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to Brazilian investors in MERCOSUR coun- tries in the exchange market. Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 73 Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require prior approval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for bor- rowing by the private or public sector when the for- eign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad; when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution; and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (that is, the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). In addition, prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the funds originate from abroad. Proceeds of foreign borrowing converted into domestic currency are subject to an IOF of Sj^ejrcent. Otherwise, inward transfers are unre- stricted and free of control, although subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of cer- tain domestic assets may be restricted. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. Portfolio investment by foreign inves- tors in fixed-income instruments is restricted to a single class of fixed-income funds, and these instru- ments are subject to an IOF of 5 percent. For the purposes of the repatriation and remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capi- tal and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with the FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment used to produce goods or render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans and includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as the foreign capital that constitutes part of the corporate capital and partici- pates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan, except portfolio investments. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad is con- sidered import financing, whether financed by the manufacturer himself (suppliers' credit) or by a third party. Persons residing abroad may make indirect port- folio investments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities by acquiring shares in a Brazil- ian investment company quoted on the Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and can be freely repatri- ated. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is $1,000. Portfolio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the Investment Fund— Foreign Capital. The minimum participation in this fund is $5,000, and invested capital can be freely repatriated. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad (including pension funds, portfolios belonging to financial institutions and insurance companies, and mutual investment funds) may maintain portfolios of bonds and other securities in Brazil once the constitutions and administrations of these entities have been approved by the Central Bank and Securities and Exchange Commission. Portfolio investments are exempt from the capital gains tax, but profits earned by foreign investors are subject to a 15 per- cent income tax. The issuance of debentures that caiTbeconverted into stocks in domestic enterprises is permitted. Externally financed nonprofit organi- zations are permitted to undertake debt-for-nature swaps. Investments made in the form of goods are sub- ject to approval and registration at the Central Bank. To register loans made in a foreign currency, the interest rate must correspond to that prevailing in the loan's original market; the amortization schedule must not be disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment. Reinvestments are defined as the profits of com- panies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the aver- age exchange rate prevailing on the date the profits are reinvested. Special regulations govern borrow- ing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Res- olution No. 63 (as amended), private, commercial, investment, and development banks and the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending in order to finance working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Financial and nonfinancial institutions are authorized to obtain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BRAZIL resources from abroad by issuing commercial papers, notes, and bonds, including securities, that can be converted into stocks. Brazilian banks located abroad are allowed to issue medium- and long-term certificates of deposit, and exporters are allowed to issue medium-term debt instruments secured with future export receipts. All other finan- cial loans in foreign currency are governed by the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans contracted under this law also require prior authorization from the Central Bank, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. On June 16,1993, the authorities announced that loans contracted under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of 36 months; no maximum term has been set. Loans are autho- rized only if the amount and the maturity conform to requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the ser- vicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1992, the Central Bank's minimum acceptable maturity was set at 30 months; however, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the minimum spec- ified maturity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final matu- rity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subse- quently be re-lent to the same or to a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt-reschedul- ing agreements, a similar mechanism applies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected principal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1989, subject to annual quantitative limits. Remittances of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted up to $500,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, through authorized banks with supporting documentation; transfers exceeding this limit require authorization from the Central Bank. Outward transfers other than capital may be made directly through authorized banks upon pre- sentation by the remitters of the appropriate docu- mentation. Outward transfers not included in public regulations need prior authorization from the Central Bank. The private sector and both the financial and nonfinancial public sector are allowed access to for- eign exchange for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks, except debts covered by the agreements concluded within the framework of the Paris Club and of pri- vate foreign banks. Gold Since the adoption of the Federal Constitution in 1988, gold transactions in Brazil have been deliv- ered in two separate markets: the financial and commercial markets. Over 90 percent of transac- tions occur in the financial market, which is regu- lated by the Central Bank. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1 percent IOF. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The Central Bank and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domes- tic and international markets (Law No. 4595 of December 31,1964 and Law No. 7766 of May 11, 1989). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by SECEX. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through SECEX in respect of other products. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 21. The limit on authorized banks' short posi- tion in the foreign exchange markets was reduced by 50 percent, relating it to the net foreign asset position of each institution. The limit on authorized banks' long position (foreign exchange that can be held by banks without being deposited in the Cen- tral Bank) was raised to $10 million from $2 million. August 1. A new currency, the cruzeiro real, replaced the cruzeiro at a conversion rate of 1,000 cruzeiros to 1 cruzeiro real. The exchange rate of the cruzeiro real would be determined freely in the exchange market. October 7. Brazilian nationals were allowed to obtain foreign exchange in the exchange market for purchases abroad of real estate, and payments for medicines, port services, advertisements, television fees, and participation in trade shows. Imports and Import Payments July 15. Importers were allowed to purchase for- eign exchange within 180 days of the settlement due date. Brazilian banks would be allowed to sell foreign exchange to Brazilian investors in MERCO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 75 SUR countries in the exchange market. Companies receiving payments for exports within 180 days of shipment would be allowed to sell the proceeds in the exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds June 17. The maximum period for securing for- eign exchange after the shipment was extended to 90 days from 45 days, and to 180 days on July 15. The same maximum period was adopted for con- tracting foreign exchange for imports before the due date of the external liability. Additionally, the maximum period for export financing before ship- ment was reduced to 180 days from 360 days. Capital June 16 (and June 28). The minimum term for external borrowings was extended to 36 months from 30 months. Also, the minimum term of exter- nal borrowing eligible for the exemption on the income tax on interest was raised to 96 months from 60 months. July 30. Private firms were authorized to make hedging operations with financial or stock market institutions, related to variations in exchange rates, interest rates, or commodity prices. August 4. Financial institutions were authorized to trade gold among themselves and to purchase from and sell to domestic customers of foreign financial institutions; previously, these operations could only be effected by the Central Bank. August 19. Foreign capital, registered under Annexes I and IV and regulated by Resolution No. 1289/87, was not allowed to be applied to fixed-income instruments. November 20. The proceeds of foreign borrowing converted into domestic currency were subject to an IOF of 3 percent. Portfolio investment by foreign investors in fixed-income instruments was restricted to a single class of fixed-income funds, and these investments were subject to an IOF of 5 percent. November 25. Foreign capital, registered under Annexes I and IV and regulated by Resolution No. 1289/87, was not allowed to be applied to investments in debentures. Portfolio investments by foreign investors in fixed-income instruments were restricted to a single class of fixed-income funds (Fundos de Renda Fixa-Capital Estrangeiro-EKF-CE). These investments would be subject to an IOF of 5 percent. Also, the proceeds of foreign borrowings converted into domestic currency will be subject to an IOF of 3 percent. December 17. The portfolio composition of the FRF-CE was restricted by excluding transactions in derivative markets yielding fixed or predetermined returns. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of April 30,1994) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev. The Bulgar- ian National Bank quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on the weighted average of transactions in the interbank exchange market during the previous trading day. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international exchange market. On April 30, 1994, the exchange rate quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was leva 56.883 per US$1. Exchange bureaus are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions in cash only. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for implementing the exchange rate policy. Seventeen commercial banks and one financial institution con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia maintains bilateral agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the proce- dures set forth in those agreements.1 Transactions are generally settled through clearing accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts (annual and multiyear) are generally to be settled in goods during the six months af ter the agreement has been terminated; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. ]At the end of 1993, Bulgaria maintained bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Belarus, Brazil, Cambo- dia, China, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malta, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, the Russian Federation, Tanzania, Tunisia, and Ukraine. Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts in Bulgaria, which may be credited with- out restriction, and from which transfers abroad may be made with permission from the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank (pursuant to the provisions of Decree No. 15 of the Council of Ministers of 1991). Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. Nonresidents may maintain accounts in foreign currencies and leva without authorization, limitation, or restric- tions for purposes of making transactions in Bul- garia. The crediting and debiting of foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regula- tions, and transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports Imports of tobacco and ice cream are subject to a quota. Imports of certain goods are restricted for health and security reasons. Most imports are sub- ject only to declaration and registration at the Min- istry of Foreign Economic Relations for statistical purposes. The import customs tariff system is based on the harmonized system of nomenclature, with rates ranging from 5 percent to 55 percent. Tariffs are calculated on the transaction values (actual invoice price paid) in foreign currency and con- verted to leva. An import surcharge of 3 percent was introduced in August 1993 and was reduced to 2 percent effective January 1,1994. The surcharge is waived for the importation of certain energy prod- ucts, pharmaceuticals, and facilities for environ- mental protection. Under Government Decree No. 241 (January 1,1994), certain goods in these cat- egories are exempt from customs duty or are sub- ject to ceilings for duty-free import or reduced-duty imports. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 241, export taxes are levied on certain types of timber, hides, wool, sunflower oil, grain, ajnd some copper products. The export tax is quoted in U.S. dollars but paid in leva; goods exported under barter operations or similar arrangements approved by the Government are exempt from the 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 77 export tax. Exports and imports of tobacco prod- ucts, coal, petroleum, livestock and meat, dairy products, high-quality wines, certain grains, tex- tiles, ferrous metals and alloys, and imports of flat glass are required to be registered. Special licenses are required for transactions under barter and clearing arrangements, for exports under government credits and for exports subject to quotas and voluntary export restraint agreements, and for imports and exports of military hardware and related technologies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive and hazardous materials; crafts and antiques; pharmaceuticals; intellectual prop- erty; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within seven work- ing days. Exports of ferrous and nonferrous metal scraps and certain grains are prohibited until Sep- tember 30,1994, and those of female livestock until May 15, 1994. The exportation of goods received as humanitarian aid and of human blood and plasma is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tourist travel are limited to the equivalent of up to leva 10,000 a person a year for people without for- eign currency deposits. Resident holders of foreign exchange deposits may use balances on these deposit accounts without restriction. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resident individuals or resident legal persons if proper documentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for (1) authorized imports of goods and ser- vices; (2) transportation and other expenses related to the conveyance of goods and passengers carried out by nonresidents; (3) interest and amortization with respect to credits approved by the Bulgarian National Bank; (4) business travel in compliance with the estab- lished procedures; (5) insurance fees; (6) banking commissions; (7) education and training; (8) health care; (9) diplomatic, consular, and other government agencies of Bulgaria abroad; (10) commercial repre- sentative offices of Bulgarian traders abroad; (11) com- missions, advertising fees and other expenses related to economic activities (including fairs and exhibi- tions); (12) membership fees in international organiza- tions; and (13) participation in international contests and festivals. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency from Bulgarian commercial banks to transfer abroad: (1) investment income received in leva; (2) compen- sation received following nationalization of invest- ment enterprises; (3) proceeds from liquidation of investment; (4) proceeds from sales of investment enterprises received in leva; and (5) amounts received in leva under judicial settlement of guaran- teed claims. Transfers abroad in compliance with the above cases may be effected upon presentation of documents that certify that outstanding liabilities have been paid. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers and remittances for family maintenance are not explicitly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of Febru- ary 8,1991), which governs foreign exchange control, but they have been treated implicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The latter group of transfers requires prior permis- sion from the Bulgarian National Bank in consulta- tion with the Ministry of Finance as stipulated by the decree; it includes (1) indirect investments; (2) offi- cial credits extended to and received from abroad; (3) investments abroad; and (4) free transfers in for- eign currency when they are not connected with imports of goods and services. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surren- dered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Residents and nonresidents may take out or bring in Bulgar- ian bank notes and coins up to leva 10,000; permis- sion from the Bulgarian National Bank is required to import or export amounts exceeding this limit. Residents may take out foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $1,000 without restriction. There is no limit on foreign currency notes nonresi- dents may bring into the country but the amount must be declared, and they may take out unspent foreign currency notes upon departure. Capital Licensed banks may borrow abroad without the authorization of the Bulgarian National Bank. Com- mercial banks licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guarantee from the Govern- ment of Bulgaria and if their borrowing complies with the prudential regulations set up by the Bul- garian National Bank. They may also extend for- eign currency and lev loans to residents and nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by the Law on the Economic Activity of For- eign Persons and Protection of Foreign Investments (State Gazette No. 8/1992). Foreign direct invest- ments must be registered with the Ministry of Finance and require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensi- tive. Foreign direct investments are guaranteed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BULGARIA against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign firms are granted the same status as domestic firms; they may, under cer- tain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, including reduced taxation and access to judicial appeal outside the system of state arbitration. In general, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are sub- ject to a profit tax of 30 percent; all other firms with foreign participation are subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liquidated capital and after-tax profits is not restricted, and transfers of profits in domestic cur- rency do not require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold, sil- ver, and platinum. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold for monetary and nonmone- tary purposes. All domestic transactions for indus- trial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in precious met- als. Resident individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jew- elry products that they may import is limited. Non- residents are permitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian National Bank, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and platinum products. Changes During 1993 Imports and Exports August 1. An import surcharge of 3 percent was introduced. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control February 11. A new currency regulation govern- ing the exportation and importation of Bulgarian bank notes and coins, foreign currency notes, and other financial assets was issued. Imports and Exports January 1. The import surcharge was reduced to 2 percent and Government Decree No. 241 was issued on import and export regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,^ which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract and are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Nonrenewable forward exchange con- tracts may be concluded for one month. For certain products, the maturity period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equato- rial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). All payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward ]The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. exchange cover, and opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO andf within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, its authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the Operations Account Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained for external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of Operations Account countries. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with China3 are channeled through special accounts. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs or other curren- cies of the Operations Account Area through for- eign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 BURKINA FASO prohibited. The debiting of these accounts is subject to prior authorization. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acquisition of an official import document is neces- sary for imports exceeding values of CFAF 250,000. Imports of the following products are subject to an import license (autorisation speciale d'importation (ASI)): wheat and cereal flour; tires and inner tubes for bicycles, motorcycles, and mopeds; tomato paste; mats and bags made of polyethylene; printed fabric and bleached and tinted threads; U40, Z40, and Z45 slats; and military equipment. A technical import visa is required for the follow- ing products: plants and plant extracts; seeds and fruits used in perfumery or medicine, as insecti- cides or for any similar purpose; plant extracts and juices; tobacco; pharmaceutical products; fertilizers; explosives and similar flammable materials; mili- tary uniforms and men's khaki or olive green clothes and military and police helmets; audio- and videotapes; and arms and ammunition. Imports of certain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import docu- ment requirement. The Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import sur- charge of 6 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. Imports of the following products are prohibited: oil-carrying tank trucks, used coaches and buses, moped inner tubes from non-WAEC countries, bicycle tires and inner tubes from non-WAEC coun- tries, wheat flour from non-WAEC countries, fish- ing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square centimeters, and ivory. All import transactions with a value of more than CFAF 500,000 that relate to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses or prior import authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the com- modities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment must be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which, for many invisi- bles, has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments of up to CFAF 50,000 per transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been spe- cifically authorized or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out bank notes other than CFAF bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limits on the number of trips or differentia- tion by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day within the limit of one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be cumu- lated with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the respective Ministries of Finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective Ministries of Finance is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, when traveling to countries that are not members of the WAMU, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a for* eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 81 is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of moni- toring, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization from the competent services of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, exports of ivory are subject to special regulations (autorisation spe- ciale d'exportation (ASE)). Exports to Ghana are also subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipu- lated in the commercial contract must not, in princi- ple, be more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination). All export transactions of more than CFAF 500,000 relating to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export attestation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 25,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital move- ments between Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Butkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special con- trols are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign firms, institutions, and private individuals, as well as over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad. These special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance4 and, unless the Minister specifically exempts them, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies having their headquarters in Burkina Faso. 5 Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BURKINA FASO Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration to request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be reported to the Minister of Finance. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of accompany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sec- tors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securi- ties of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents also requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of f irm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of these loans outstanding—including the new borrowing—does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the pro- ceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself is subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan is exempt from special authoriza- tion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives to anv enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably expand activities likely to contribute to the coun- try's economic and socialdevelopment. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-lined or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinabe des metaux precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Burkina Faso (and other member coun- tries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes, of their common central bank (BCEAO), in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized finan- cial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Follow- ing this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the mem- ber countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the coun- tries of the Bank of Central African States (BEAC), France and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits pertaining to the amount of bank notes other than CFAF bank notes that can be taken out by travelers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the WAMU member ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 83 countries revised upward the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limits on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 75,000 per day within the limit of one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances can be cumulated with tourism allow- ances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the respective Min- istries of Finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective Ministries of Finance would be limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel to non-WAMU coun- tries; (5) with regard to repatriation by resident trav- elers of means of payment, the new regulations introduced for all WAMU countries a uniform requirement of declaration at customs and of surren- dering within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident (Foreign Currency) Accounts The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, the external value of which has been pegged since May 14, 1992 to a basket of currencies that reflects the pattern of Burundi's international trade. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 262.27 and FBu 266.50, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 and for 2 units of accounts (Euro- pean currency units^ (ECUs) and Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area (UAPTAs)) are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc/U.S. dollar rate and the transaction value of these cur- rencies and units in terms of the U.S. dollar. Com- mercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account and on behalf of their customers at rates within maximum margins of 1 percent on either side of the middle rate estab- lished by the central bank. Commercial banks are allowed to borrow foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Exporters of coffee are also allowed to borrow foreign exchange through their banks or from their customers for purposes of crop financing and hedging against exchange risks. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to six authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through SDR accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any convertible currency. Nonresident accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of foreign nationality (such as staff of diplomatic mis- sions) who are temporarily established in Burundi, (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with spe- cial status (such as diplomatic missions and interna- tional organizations), and (3) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any con- vertible currency, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs or for conversion into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 per trip may be withdrawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket) for unlimited number of trips. Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. These accounts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside Burundi may maintain accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and juridical per- sons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad; (2) enterprises authorized to operate in the free trade zone; (3) exporters of nontraditional products who are authorized to retain 30 percent of their export proceeds; (4) Burundi nationals resident abroad; and (5) any other natural or juridical per- sons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible cur- rency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs of any payments in Burundi; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of for- eign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and com- missions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents. With- drawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. Imports and Import Payments Imports are fully liberalized, except for a limited number of goods, the importation of which is 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 85 restricted mainly for health or security reasons. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and price by an international supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available either at the time of shipment of the goods on the basis of the shipping documents or following importation of the goods. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Transportation expenses on certain routes to Burundi or abroad must be paid in Burundi francs. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70 percent of their net annual income (80 percent in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50 percent of their production). Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer 100 percent of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors, af ter payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100 percent of their earnings, after deduction of local expenses. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of up to 50 percent of net rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, office, and residen- tial buildings is permitted (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses) in any one-year period; the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred in full after one year provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institu- tion for two years for commercial, industrial, and office buildings, and for three years for residential buildings. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is $200 a person a day or its equiva- lent ($250 for exporters), subject to a maximum limit of 15 days per trip. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. There is no limit on the number of trips a person may take. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are fully liberalized. Export proceeds must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at customs for surface shipment or within 30 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from exports of non- traditional products are set by individual banks. All proceeds from traditional exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank. Exporters of nontradi- tional products may retain up to 30 percent of proceeds. Exports of mineral products, coffee, hides, and all exports by those not authorized by ministerial order are subject to export duties. Duties paid on raw materials at the time of importation may be refunded, provided that the manufactured products are exported and the proceeds collected. In the case of fully paid exports of nontraditional primary products, the refund will cover 10 percent of the value of such payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the central bank and traveler's checks and up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling con- vertible currencies or by using a credit card. Pay- ment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the central bank, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce dec- larations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on January 14,1987, new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic impor- tance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BURUNDI and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises accorded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable peri- ods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are con- sidered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Sec- retariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authori- zation. In addition, Burundi guarantees each for- eign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of for- eign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide work- ing capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank; and the retransfer may take place as soon as the funds to be transferred are available and with no limitation as to time. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the amount received from abroad. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. Gold All natural or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates communi- cated by the central bank. Gold exports are autho- rized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Exporters of coffee were authorized to borrow foreign exchange through their banks or from their customers, thereby enabling them to hedge against exchange risks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of January 31 ,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian Kiel (CR). The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official and the parallel market rates. The parallel market is tolerated by the authorities, and the exchange rate in this market is determined by market forces. Adjustments to the official exchange rate are made frequently by the National Bank of Cambodia so as to limit the spread between the official and paral- lel market rates to no more than 2 percent on a daily basis. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the Government and state-owned enterprises. On January 31,1994, the official exchange rate was CR 2,505 per US$1, and the parallel market rate was CR 2,504 per US$1. The National Bank is responsible for pegging the exchange rate, quoting official daily rates, and set- ting margins within which both commercial banks and other foreign exchange dealers buy and sell for- eign exchange. By law, the spread between buying and selling rates established by foreign exchange dealers is not allowed to exceed 2 percent.1 The interbank exchange rate is legally defined within a specified margin of the official rate, but in practice, transactions usually take place at the rate prevailing in the parallel market. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy only bank notes and traveler's checks and are required by law to con- duct transactions at the official rate; in practice, however, these transactions take place at the paral- lel rather than the official rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The exchange control regime is defined by the Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange, Pre- cious Metals and Stones. This law vests responsibil- ity for the management of foreign exchange (as well as precious metals and stones) with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the National Bank. The National Bank is authorized to license commercial 1 Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange, Precious Met- als and Stones, promulgated by Decree No. 71 of the Council of State (dated August 31, 1991) and Sub-decree No. 29 of the Council of Ministers (dated November 8,1991). banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. State-owned enterprises must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to engage in export and import trade or in any other businesses generating foreign exchange and are required to repatriate foreign exchange earnings. Licenses are not required to engage in for- eign trade activities undertaken by registered trad- ing companies. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Cambodia does not maintain operative bilateral payments agreements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with commer- cial banks. Although there are no limits on the bal- ances of these accounts, the funds may not be used to settle domestic transactions but must be con- verted into domestic currency. In practice, however, such transactions are frequently settled through for- eign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Commerce, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. Imports undertaken by registered trading com- panies require no license and there are no quantita- tive restrictions on imports although imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohib- ited for reasons of national security, health, environ- mental well-being, or public morality. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade are not restricted. The repatriation of profits by foreign companies is regulated by the Foreign Investment Law of July 1989, which provides for the transfer of dividends and profits with the approval of the National Bank. Foreign companies are required to register initial capital investments in Cambodia with the National Bank in order to become eligible 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 CAMBODIA to transfer dividends and profits. At present, profits are repatriated on a discretionary basis. An exchange allowance for travel of $3,000 a per- son is granted at the official rate for Cambodians going abroad for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay. Amounts in excess of this limit may be approved by the National Bank. There are no officially established limits on other invisible payments. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most products by registered trading companies may be undertaken without a license. Exports of certain products by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for a limited list of goods including sawed timber and logs. The exportation of rice, gems, and logs is prohibited, and exports of sawed timber are subject to a quota. All proceeds from exports by state- owned enterprises must be repatriated and sold to or deposited with the Foreign Trade Bank of Cam- bodia (FTBC); private sector entities must repatriate and hold export proceeds in accounts with com- mercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles by private sector entities are not subject to the repatriation or surrender requirement. Proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises are subject to the same reg- ulations as those governing proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Capital Borrowing abroad is permitted only with the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Foreign direct investments inflows must be approved by the National Investment Committee, and are governed by the Law on Investment. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 1. The National Bank began to limit the average spread between the official and the parallel market exchange rates to no more than 5 percent during any two-week period. September 23. The National Bank began regular auctions of foreign exchange. Authorized partici- pants are commercial banks and registered busi- nessmen. Bidders are required to lodge a deposit equal to 10 percent of their bid and to pay the bal- ance in two working days. December 1. The National Bank began to limit the average spread between the official and parallel market exchange rates to no more than 3 percent during any two-week period. Imports and Import Payments September 1. The licensing requirement as well as all quantitative restrictions for imports undertaken by registered trading companies were eliminated. The import duty structure was simplified to a four-band system, with the rates ranging from 5 percent to 50 percent. October 19. The ban on the exportation of logs and the export quota for sawed timber were tempo- rarily lifted between October 1993 and March 1994. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Exports of logs were banned. February 1. Exports of gems were banned. September 1. The licensing requirement for exports undertaken by registered trading compa- nies was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Operations Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or more than nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. JThe CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Yaounde may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Nonresidents are allowed to maintain bank accounts in convert- ible francs. These accounts, held mainly by diplo- matic missions, international institutions, and their nonresident employees, may be credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign cur- rencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to res- idents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonresidents may not maintain accounts in CFA 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CAMEROON francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Residents are not permitted to maintain accounts abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports require technical licenses prov- ing that the goods are for professional use. Certain other imports are prohibited for political, ecologi- cal, health, or safety reasons. Surcharges apply to imports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import payments are permitted if underlying contracts stipulate them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declara- tion and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may be granted foreign exchange allowances subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these lim- its are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Min- istry of Finance is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at cus- toms and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from an account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; re-exportation above this ceiling requires documen- tation showing either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and tax pay- ments. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of up to 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon, depending on the number of dependents abroad, is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cam- eroon temporarily who have been insured previ- ously, residents and nonresidents are not allowed to contract insurance abroad when the same services are available in Cameroon. However, payments of premiums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions valued at CFAF 500,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries must be repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within a month of the due date, and foreign currency receipts must be surren- dered within a month of collection. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring into Cameroon any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 91 any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital transactions between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Provided they have met their tax obligations, emigrants to countries outside the Operations Account Area may transfer abroad their fu ll savings. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits or do not exceed 20 percent of the fa ir market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Cameroonian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered direct investment, provided that it does not 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroo- nian Government, and (2) shares similar to securi- ties, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. All foreign securities and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by regis- tered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or, subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. The Investment Code of November 1990 aims to promote the development of natural resources, job creation, production, and exportation (especially of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CAMEROON manufactures), and the transfer of appropriate tech- nology. Under the code, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the develop- ment of natural resources, and further benefits are provided to enterprises qualifying for inclusion in one of the five regimes described below. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion from export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 percent of the value of exports from the exporter's taxable income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and pur- chase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs produced in Cameroon or the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and for- eign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment mainte- nance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 10 million investment), export-oriented firms, and firms that use domestic natural resources. During a three-year installation phase, firms under this regime are enti- tled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to cer- tain fiscal exemptions. During a five-year exploita- tion phase, certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and whose level of Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The strategic regime applies to enterprises declared strategic by the Cameroonian authorities and fulfilling certain other conditions. This regime provides the same benefits as those under the basic regime during the installa- tion phase which is five years and the same benefits as those available under the small and medium-size enterprise regime during the exploitation phase which is 12 years. (4) The free trade zone regime is available to enterprises devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agree- ments. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 percent or that satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the reinvestment regime. For three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to certain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10, 1990 provides that Cameroonian interests should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institu- tion. This law also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the mone- tary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization f rom the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and the Minister of Finance, although such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Cameroon (and other member coun- tries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the Operations Account countries of the franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Following this decision, the BEAC recommended to member countries that they adopt uniform regulations by modifying the for- eign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad, in particular distinguishing between travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 93 to the BEAC countries, the Central Bank of West African states (BCEAO) countries, France and the Comoros, on the one hand, and travel to countries outside the franc zone on the other.4 Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments January 24. All quantitative restrictions were eliminated. The range of tariff rates was changed from 0-200 percent to 5-30 percent. Duties from the member countries of UDEAC were set at 20 percent of the corresponding rate applicable to imports from other countries. January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. Capital 4 As of the end of J anu a ry 1994, Cameroon had not adopted these regulations. January 24. The Investment Code was revised whereby the exemption from customs duties on imports that was granted to foreign firms was with- drawn and was replaced by a 50 percent reduction in the corporate profit tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; how- ever, the authorities intervene from time to time J:o maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1993 was Can$1.3253 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly deter- mined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25,1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affa irs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Canada notified the Fund on July 23,1992 that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required only for a few agri- cultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natu- ral gas, and material and equipment for the produc- tion or use of atomic energy. Import permits are required for the importation of controlled sub- stances classified as dangerous drugs. In addition, Health and Welfare Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered with it. Import permits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. Permits are rarely issued for some agricultural items, such as butter and milk, while other agricultural items may be subject to a quota. Commercial imports of cer- tain products, primarily margarine and used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) are generally pro- hibited, but the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States will be phased out over a five-year period that began in 1989. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usu- ally in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the Multifiber Arrangement negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), are also subject to quantitative restrictions. As a result of the commitments made by Canada in the Uruguay Round negotiations, a number of the aforementioned measures will be affected. Exports and Export Proceeds To support their export sales, exporters may have access to financing and insurance services provided by the Export Development Corporation. The surrender of proceeds from exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. The principal legal instrument governing export controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the Export Con- trol List and Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Industrial List, and the Interna- tional Atomic Energy List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States. In addition, controls are maintained over a broad range of items controlled for nonproliferation purposes (chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, the following countries are on the Area Control List: Angola, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 95 Haiti, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for or exchange receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the financial, broadcasting, telecom- munication, transportation, fishery, and energy sec- tors. In addition, under the provisions of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review, and direct acquisitions of busi- nesses with assets exceeding Can$5 million and indirect acquisitions involving assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sec- tors may be reviewed. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test proving that they will yield a net benefit to Canada. There are no controls on outward direct investment or on inward or outward portfolio investment. The domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Can- ada (excluding those controlled by Mexican or U.S. residents) must not exceed an amount fixed by a ministerial order in respect of the bank. The total domestic assets of all such foreign-owned banks must not exceed 12 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Canada has agreed, through the General Agreement on Trade Services, to remove the 12 percent domestic asset ceiling for foreign-owned banks.2 1This restriction was eliminated for U.S.-owned banks under the Free Trade Agreement and for Mexican-owned banks under the North American Free Trade Agreement. 2 This measure will come into force once implementing legisla- tion for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade is passed by Parliament. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Vio and 14 of an ounce of gold, respectively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing Vi of an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 20. An antidumping duty of 27.3 percent was imposed on imports of gypsum wallboard from the United States. May 6. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of carbon steel plate from Belgium (23.6 per- cent), Brazil (43.2 percent), the Czech Republic (53.8 percent), Denmark (53.8 percent), Germany (12.3 percent), Macedonia (40.9 percent), Romania (53.8 percent), and the United Kingdom (32.9 percent). June 21. A 25 percent ad valorem tariff was levied on imports of boneless beef exceeding 48,014 tons from all countries other than the United States from May 1 to December 31,1993. June 29. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of cold-rolled carbon steel sheets from France (24.8 percent), Germany (27.7 percent), Italy (46.6 percent), the United Kingdom (35.8 percent), and the United States (17.2 percent). October 18. An antidumping duty of 47 percent was imposed on imports of copper and brass pipe fittings from the United States. November 19. An antidumping duty of 38 percent was imposed on imports of fiberglass pipe insula- tion from the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Special Accounts (Emigrants) The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 85.68 and C.V. Esc 86.29, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). Certain categories of imports, exports, and re-exports that exceed the limits specified below are subject to licensing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Export proceeds must be repatriated in convert- ible currencies. Cape Verde maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements with Angola and Sao Tome and Principe, both of which are currently inoperative. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exclu- sively with foreign exchange. Foreign enterprises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange deposit accounts, (2) savings-credit deposit accounts, and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts may be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings-credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100,000 and not involv- ing payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to the preregistration require- ment. The importation of maize, rice, sugar, and cooking oil is a government monopoly. Licenses, which are issued by the General Direc- torate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 100,000. Nationals of Cape Verde traveling abroad as tour- ists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 100,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of for- eign currency that varies according to medical 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 97 needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance person- nel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only up to the amount of currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500 are subject to licensing and to approval from the central bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months of the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a commercial bank. The importation of domestic cur- rency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not nor- mally permitted. Foreign direct investments are allowed to be repatriated (within 30 days after sub- mission of applications to the Bank of Cape Verde). Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the mone- tary authorities. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 100 per F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its over- seas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) of the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC,2 to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are for- eign accounts in francs. As the BEAC has sus- pended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by the foreign cor- respondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are not subject to licensing requirements or quotas. Imports of fire- arms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Import declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries 1The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 99 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to coun- tries outside the franc zone are subject to the fol- lowing regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5.0 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of pay- ment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than bank notes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted; however, documentation is required that such means of payment have been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless spe- cial authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than French francs or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. If payment is received in foreign currency, it must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resideiit and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enter- prises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a gov- ernment guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in the Central African Republic. These ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. The full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a partic- ipation that had previously been approved as con- stituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the dec- laration during which he may request postpone- ment. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central African Republic. All direct investments, whether Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in the Central African Republic, that are made or liquidated must be reported to the Minis- ter within 20 days of each operation. (Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in the Central African Repub- lic has previously been authorized. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 4 Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and Decision No. 18/65 of December 14,1965, of the Central African Customs and Economic Union, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the importation of specified equipment. In addi- tion, certain enterprises are exempt from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C) that allow fiscal and other privileges to be accorded to firms investing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 101 either in new enterprises or in the expansion of exist- ing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval of prefer- ential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is Chairman of the Investment Com- mission that considers the application. If the Com- mission gives a positive decision, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Minis- ters. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree from the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. The Central African Republic (and other member countries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes issued by their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The guaranteed convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remains in effect. Following this decision, the BEAC member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations are to be uniform among the member countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BEAC countries, the BCEAO countries, France and the Comoros, and to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BCEAO countries, France, and the Como- ros), the new regulations allow residents to obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the BEAC member countries increased the previous limits as follows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uni- form ceiling of CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5.0 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Minis- try of Finance, would be limited to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourism and business travel to non- BEAC countries; (5) for resident travelers repatriat- ing means of payment, the new regulations intro- duced for all BEAC countries require that amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 be declared at customs and surrendered within eight days. In addition, travelers to BCEAO countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries are required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their coun- try, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new pro- vision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documen- tation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The regulations increased to CFAF 250,000 the maximum amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restriction. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceil- ings would require documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits held in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quo- tations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the account of the Treasury, for students' bursaries, and to the member countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Como- ros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Sene- gal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and made only through authorized banks, using bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export autho- rizations for gold. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated l rThe CFA franc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area must be made through autho- rized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to debt-service payments on public debt. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of autho- rized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and the original member states of the European Union (EU) (other than France) may be made freely. All imports from non-EU countries outside the Operations Account Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 103 Industry on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EU countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries judged to have abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EU countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, and other countries. Specified goods from certain neigh- boring countries not belonging to the Operations Account Area, up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year, may be imported through compensation transactions by an importer. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of ciga- rettes has been suspended until fur ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of bona fide income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. Insurance on all imports to Chad with values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident trav- eler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EU countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neigh- boring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 CHAD issued by the BE AC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of payment. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and coins in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 must exchange them for CFA francs within eight days of returning. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended, are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of for- eign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enter- prise; the full or partial liquidation of direct invest- ments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether Chadian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise.) 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of the loan outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7 percent, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount of these loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain a specified mini- mum amount of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on Decem- ber 9,1987, any domestic or foreign enterprise estab- lished in Chad, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports and exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The code provides for four categories of enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 105 that may be eligible to receive various forms of pref- erential treatment (including certain tax privileges). Requests for preferential treatment must be submit- ted to the Minister of Finance, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. With the recommendation of this com- mission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold without specific authorization. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from both the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as a visa from the Exter- nal Finance Department. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw dia- monds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Chad (and other member countries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Following this decision, the BEAC member countries adopted regulations modi- fying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the member countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BEAC countries, the BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits pertaining to the amount of bank notes that can be taken out by travelers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BCEAO countries, and bank notes for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the BEAC member countries revised upward the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 100,000 a day with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these lim- its would be subject to the authorization of the Min- istry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be limited to the ceil- ings indicated above for tourism and business travel to non-BEAC countries; (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of pay- ment, the new regulations introduced for all BEAC countries a uniform requirement of declaration at customs and of surrendering within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addi- tion, travelers were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Its external (reference) value is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the U.S. dollar (50.6 per- cent), the deutsche mark (26.7 percent), and the Jap- anese yen (22.7 percent); the weight of each currency in the basket is based on its relative impor- tance in Chile's international transactions. The external value of the basket is adjusted daily on the basis of the exchange rate relationships between the currencies included in the basket and the differen- tial between the domestic and the foreign rates of inflation. The Central Bank of Chile conducts for- eign exchange transactions with the official exchange market entities within margins of 10 per- cent around the reference rate. On December 31, 1993, the official market buying and selling rates were Ch$427.32 and Ch$429.57, respectively, per US$1. The official foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks, exchange houses, and other entities licensed by the Central Bank. Ninety per- cent of proceeds from exports of goods and ser- vices, payments for imports of goods and services, debt-service payments, remittances of dividends and profits, and authorized capital transactions, including loan receipts, must be transacted through this market. In addition, there is an informal exchange market through which all transactions not required to be channeled through the official for- eign exchange market are allowed to take place. In both markets, economic agents are free to negotiate exchange rates. The banks are authorized to sell their excess for- eign exchange holdings to other banks. Foreign exchange may be bought for the repayment of capi- tal or interest abroad due within 90 days if these debts are properly registered at the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides an exchange subsidy on the following service payments on some debts contracted before August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about $8 billion):1 (1) payments to Chilean banks or financial compa- nies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) payments abroad on debt obligations registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is is exchange subsidy is being phased out with the repay- ment of the covered debt and the reduction in the differential between the official reference rate and the preferential rate. paid by means of notes indexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years and an interest rate of 3 percent. On December 31, 1992, the difference between the official reference rate and the subsi- dized rate was Ch$39.7 per US$1. As of the end of 1992, only those debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985 have had access to this subsidized rate. The stock of debt eligible in principle for the preferential exchange rate is estimated at US$55 million. How- ever, the actual amount for which this exchange rate is being applied is expected to be negligible owing in part to the bankruptcy of many of the affected debtors, and the subsidy operations are expected to stop soon. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for implementing exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Com- mission is responsible for supervising copper exports and all imports of the copper industry in accordance with general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks 6f each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the excep- tion of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the Central Bank (or by private agencies for LAIA countries), which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions, through the official foreign exchange market, is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Importers meeting the documentary require- ments are granted access to the official foreign exchange market regardless of the terms of the obli- gation involved, provided that the supplier's inter- 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 107 est continues to accrue until the date on which the foreign currency is sold. Imports are subject to a uniform tariff rate of 11 percent. A few items are exempt from the general tariff regime, including items on which tariffs have been negotiated with LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements. Imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a special regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price must remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, to imports of certain products that are subsi- dized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances are granted for certain transactions; others must take place through the informal exchange market. Authorization is pro- vided upon presentation of the appropriate docu- ments. The limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is US$3,000 a tr ip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$5,000 a trip to other countries. Higher amounts for travel other than for purposes of tourism may be authorized by the Central Bank, upon presentation of adequate justification. Travelers may also purchase additional foreign currency in the informal exchange market. Residents may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange up to US$3,000 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines and books, reg- istrations for seminars, social security payments, medical treatment payments, or remittances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad; for all these transactions, the appropriate documents must be presented. Remittances of earnings by for- eign workers must be channeled through the infor- mal exchange market. Remittances of profits and dividends earned from foreign direct investments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special provisions for exports of domestic bank notes. Insurance activities within the country are lim- ited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All products may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$2,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to inform the Central Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to pur- chase all spot foreign exchange proceeds from exporters. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 10 percent of export proceeds in special foreign exchange accounts, with a cumulative limit of US$5 million on deposits to be made during a 12-month period. Balances in these accounts may be used to cover travel expenses and consultants' fees, bank costs and /or commissions, and other expenses involved in export transactions. Windfall receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be deposited in a special foreign cur- rency account at the Central Bank, and withdrawals from this account are permitted only under certain circumstances. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 150 days of ship- ment and surrendered within 11 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 90 days if they are held as foreign exchange depos- its with domestic banks. Repatriation periods may be extended for certain products. Exporters of a limited number of products (approximately 6 percent of the country's annual exports) have the option of taking a tax reimburse- ment (within 120 days of surrendering the pro- ceeds) in lieu of benefits under the existing import du ty drawback scheme; alternatively, exporters of these products may avail themselves of the provi- sions of Law No. 19.024, under which they may obtain refunds of the duties paid on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1990 were equal to or less than US$5 million. The list of eligible products is reviewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export values are also subject to adjustment each year. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. The same rule applies to royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. No similar rules govern the proceeds from family remittances or the surplus foreign exchange from travel allocations. There are no special provisions for imports of domestic bank notes. Capital All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior registration at, or approval from, the Central Bank; exceptions are lines of credit of up to one-year ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 CHILE maturity with foreign correspondents and short- term loans for domestic relending. Short-term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings that do not require its approval. All foreign borrowings, except for credits that are provided directly to Chil- ean exporters by foreign importers, are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; this requirement may be satisfied by depositing the required balance in the Central Bank without interest or by entering into a special repurchase agreement with the Cen- tral Bank that effectively imposes a cost equivalent to the interest forgone. The length of the period during which the reserve requirement must be held in the Central Bank is one year for loans and bonds. Credit lines and deposit must also satisfy the 30 percent reserve requirement, which is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the previous month. Credits granted by foreign commercial banks to Chilean commercial banks as part of restructuring packages are exempt from the reserve requirement. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of for- eign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks. There is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing. Repatri- ation is allowed only in accordance with the amor- tization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. Since June 1990, under Chapter XXVI of Title I, individu- als and legal entities, domiciled and resident abroad, and meeting certain conditions, have been permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered corporations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of divi- dends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. A-rated Chilean enter- prises and banks were authorized under Chapter XIV Regulations on May 13, 1992 to issue bonds in foreign markets. These bonds must be a minimum of US$50 million and have a minimum term of four years (weighted average). Issuing entities must receive a credit rating from a foreign rating com- pany that is equal to or better than that assigned to Chile. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract that stipulates that capital trans- fers to Chile will not normally exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Invest- ments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agreements in this regard may be included in the above-mentioned investment contract. Since March 1993, capital may be repatriated a f ter one year (instead of three) unless specified otherwise in the investment con- tract. Foreign investors may opt for a guaranteed annual corporate income tax at the rate of 42.0 percent over a period of ten years or may sub- ject themselves to a tax system similar to that which is applied to domestic corporations. (According to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effec- tive tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Cen- tral Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile before the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and that is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Govern- ment under presidential decree; rights and respon- sibilities under such a decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Min- istry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase abroad and repatria- tion of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments at a discount. Eligible instruments are defined as external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, when the debtor is either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Development Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institu- tion. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct invest- ment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval from the Central Bank, the foreign cur- rency obligation is exchanged into a domestic cur- rency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the inter- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 109 mediation of a financial institution; special regula- tions apply to the repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Advance remittances of profits earned on foreign investments under- taken under Chapter XIX may be authorized, pro- vided that applications have been submitted by April 30,1993. Pension funds are allowed to invest abroad up to 3 percent of the total value of the pen- sion fund. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remit- tance rights) of debt purchased abroad by residents and nonresidents at a discount with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guaranteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, sub- ject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Under Chapter XIX foreign inves- tors may sell their investments to domestic inves- tors after paying a fee to the Central Bank. The last operation of debt conversion under these schemes took place in 1991. (5) Chapter XXVII of Title I of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in August 1990, stipulates that foreign capital investment funds may have access to the official exchange market for repatriation abroad of imported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign investment activities under certain conditions. Foreign currency deposits in banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; reserves against external credits entering under Chapter XIV must be retained for one year. Banks may sell for- eign exchange using their term deposits in foreign exchange. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely undertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments March 11. Documents required to provide infor- mation on imports that were previously issued only by the Central Bank were permitted to be issued also by private agencies in respect of imports from LAIA member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds March 11. The period to surrender foreign exchange proceeds was extended to 90 days from 11 days in cases where the proceeds are deposited in local commercial banks. Capital March 31. The "guaranteed" corporate income tax for foreign investors opting for a tax rate different from that used for domestic corporations was low- ered to 42 percent from 49.5 percent. June 3. Corporations issuing bonds on the inter- national capital market were required to obtain from a foreign rating company a credit rating that is equal to or better than that assigned to Chile. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, and its unit is the Yuan. Follow- ing the changes in the exchange rate system effec- tive January 1, 1994, the People's Bank of China (PBC) publishes daily the rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other convertible cur- rencies on the basis of the previous day 's rates in the nationwide swap markets. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar were Y 5.785 and Y 5.8145, respectively, per US$1. Since April 1, 1994, the PBC has published daily only the middle rates of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies according to the transaction price prevailing in the interbank market on the previous day and also with refer- ence to the changes of the international foreign exchange marke t. Based on the middle rate pub- lished by the PBC, the designated banks then quote their buying and selling rates to their cus- tomers within a range of 0.25 percent. The ren- minbi exchange ra te is now a single, managed floating rate based on demand and supply in the foreign exchange market. The exchange rates for other major currencies are quoted on the basis of the cross ra te of the U.S. dollar against the curren- cies concerned in international markets.1 Pub- lished rates for currencies other than those that are impor tant to China's international transactions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 0.5-1 per- cent. Banks licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions quote rates within the range of the buying and selling rates published by the PBC. and for controlling foreign exchange transactions in accordance with state policy. There are a number of SAEC sub-bureaus in the provinces, main munici- palities, autonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is China's special- ized foreign exchange bank. Other banks and finan- cial institutions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than two hundred institutions are authorized to handle for- eign exchange transactions. The China Interna- tional Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) and other local financial institutions are authorized to conduct transactions connected with foreign investments in China. Individuals may hold foreign exchange but generally may not deal in it or con- duct arbitrage operations. Financial institutions may hold foreign exchange. The foreign exchange plan includes transactions with countries with which China maintains bilat- eral payments agreements (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, below).2 The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and, at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and the State Planning Commis- sion (SPC) review the implementation of the plan and determine whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. The actual implementation of the plan is delegated to the local level, where enterprises are assigned foreign exchange targets that determine the firms' access to the foreign exchange adjustment centers. Unex- pected events, such as changes in foreign trade pol- icies, may necessitate a revision of the plan. Administration of Control The PBC exercises central bank functions and control over foreign exchange; the State Adminis- tration of Exchange Control (SAEC), as a govern- ment institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency As of the end of 1993, an operative bilateral pay- ments agreement was maintained with Cuba.3 Unless there are specific regulations, the currencies used in transactions are determined by the terms of the respective contracts. 2 The foreign exchange plan was abolished on January 1,1994. 3 The bilateral payments agreement with Bangladesh was ter- minated on January 1, 1993; an inoperative bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mongolia. no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 111 Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. For- eign-funded enterprises (FFEs), including joint ven- tures, may also open foreign exchange current accounts and use them to make payments abroad. On a case-by-case basis, the SAEC may authorize Chinese enterprises to open foreign exchange accounts. Branches of foreign banks may grant loans in foreign exchange and accept foreign cur- rency deposits from FFEs and enterprises approved by the SAEC. Individuals may open resident foreign currency savings accounts at the BOC and other authorized banks; withdraw foreign currency from, or deposit it to, such accounts without restriction; and sell the proceeds in a foreign exchange adjustment center. Imports and Exports Primary responsibility for formulating foreign trade policies and ensuring the implementation of regulations and policy measures rests with the Min- istry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports.5 MOFTEC does not engage in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other entities licensed by MOFTEC to conduct foreign trade. At the end of 1993, about 4,000 FTCs were in operation. In addition, some 60,000 FFEs are permitted to conduct international trade directly. All enterprises other than registered FTCs need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with MOFTEC authorization, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and com- merce, to engage in foreign trade. All foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatri- ated, and, except those of FFEs and those approved by the SAEC, they must be sold to designated banks. The BOC and other specialized banks provide foreign exchange for imports when import con- tracts and commercial documentation are pre- 4 Nonresidents include Chinese working overseas and resi- dents of foreign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Diplomatic representatives are also included. 5 MOFTEC itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts, the Commissions on Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. sented. Import licenses, when required, are examined by the banks. Residents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports comprise those included in the annual import plan drawn up by MOFTEC in conjunction with the SPC and those outside the plan. The plan is not mandatory and serves only as guidance. MOFTEC sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all FTCs and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions; the bureaus, in turn, meet with other inter- ested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for exportation. The plans pre- pared at the local level are coordinated and bal- anced by MOFTEC and the SPC at national foreign trade planning conferences. Under the plan, import ranges rather than specific targets are established, and they are administered flexibly. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan, which gives priority to goods that cannot be produced domesti- cally in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the state, especially for key projects. In the case of goods not produced in ade- quate quantities but for which a strong demand exists in the foreign market, a portion of production is set aside for export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories—restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.6 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.7 Import licensing serves to limit imports of restricted goods included in the annual plan. Imports of seven items on the restricted list (televi- sion sets, household refrigerators, household wash- ing machines, radiocassette recorders, room air conditioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are also restricted through the licensing system; imports of these items must be approved by the SPC. Apart from imports restricted through the licens- ing system, a few types of imports, such as all sec- ondhand garments, are explicitly banned for sanitary reasons. Imports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as are exports of valuable cultural relics, rare books, ancj animals, seeds, plants, precious metals, and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the 6At the end of 1993, 53 product items were on the restricted list, representing 38 percent of total import value in 1992. 7In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis, and the items covered by the import plan also change. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA importation and exportation of weapons, ammuni- tion and explosives, radio receivers and transmit- ters, Chinese currency, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and exports require prior inspection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of spec- ified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Reg- ulations on Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: general and preferential. Gen- eral rates apply to imports originating in the coun- tries or regions with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with recip- rocal favorable tar iff clauses; preferential rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded such treaties and agree- ments. The duties are calculated on the basis of the transaction value of imported goods. Imports into Tibet are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the State Council. The tariff applies to goods imported for use in Tibet on a nondiscriminatory basis and irre- spective of their origin. It does not apply to imports into Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the lug- gage carried by travelers, which are subject to the regular Chinese ta r i f f. Domestic enterprises are liable to a products tax and a value-added tax on imports of certain prod- ucts into China; FFEs are liable to a consolidated industrial and commercial tax. Since January 1, 1994, a uniform value-added tax is applied to both domestic and imported products; the relevant pro- visions are contained in Provisional Regulations of the PRC on Value-Added Tax (December 13, 1993), and Provisional Regulations of the PRC on Con- sumption Tax (December 13,1993). Before 1991, special economic zones were set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Zhuhai, and Hainan. A special development area was estab- lished in Pudong (Shanghai), and economic and technological development zones were established in 14 designated coastal cities. In 1992, approval was granted for the establishment of a large num- ber of similar zones in selected inland cities and border regions that have recently been declared open to foreign trade and investment. Foreigners, Chinese working overseas, and Chinese from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan Province of China are permitted to invest in and open businesses in these zones and areas either through wholly owned ven- tures or joint ventures with Chinese investors. Equipment and machinery or parts and compo- nents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. At the end of 1993, 138 products representing 48 percent of total export value were subject to export-licensing requirements. Exports of some products are prohib- ited. In addition, exports of 40 products are subject to export duties. Purchases of foreign exchange for trade and trade-related transactions do not require the approval of the SAEC. Foreign exchange for trade may be purchased from designated banks, pro- vided that the importer has a valid import contract and a notice of payment from a foreign financial institution; for imports subject to licensing, quotas, or registration procedures, presentation of the cer- tificates concerned is also required. Foreign exchange may be purchased to pay for trade-related services upon presentation of contracts or payment notices. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises, except for FFEs and some sectors approved by the SAEC, must sell their foreign exchange earnings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or f rom Hong Kong and Macao to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open a savings account at an authorized bank or sold for renminbi at the rate quoted by the banks. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immi- grants or returning Chinese before they become res- idents may be retained. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents working abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao; or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad. Individuals may retain or deposit exchange receipts with designated banks. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from Hong Kong and Macao,8 may remit their salaries and other income earned in China after paying taxes and deducting 8 Including those employed by enterprises that have been established with capital provided by Chinese residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 113 their living expenses in China and after receiving approval from the relevant local authorities. After-tax profits of joint ventures may be remitted in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. If the out- standing balance of such an account is not sufficient, FFEs may buy foreign exchange from foreign exchange adjustment centers. Chinese residents wishing to spend money on travel abroad or remit money abroad may apply to the designated banks. All transactions, except those of an official nature, are carried out through the for- eign exchange centers. Such factors as the individ- ual's usual income need not be examined. In cases of serious illness, death, or in jury affecting Chinese residents' parents, spouses, or children outside China, the residents may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presentation of documentary verification. In general, if permission is granted to travel abroad, Chinese residents are allowed to take a reasonable amount of their own foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence. There is no tax on travel. Chinese residents who retire and emigrate are normally per- mitted to receive their pensions abroad, but trans- fers of proceeds from the sale of their assets in China are limited. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is applied to foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the 14 open coastal cities and the newly opened inland and border cities. Joint ventures must be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified as either "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.9 Plan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agri- 9 The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. It permits the BOC and other finan- cial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for undertaking commercial borrowing to contract short-term loans up to speci- fied limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval from the SAEC. In August 1987, com- prehensive regulations were issued requiring that all foreign borrowing be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to service their external debt obligations and will be sub- ject to other penalties. culture, and MOFTEC and enterprises under the MOFTEC's control) from international organizations and bilateral sources; (2) official borrowing, including that by CITIC and international trust and investment companies (ITICs), mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad, to finance plan projects; (3) borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; (4) borrowing by pro- vincial financial institutions (either directly or through the BOC) for large projects included in provincial gov- ernments' annual plans; and (5) borrowing by the BOC and other financial institutions. Nonplan bor- rowing includes (1) borrowing by the BOC for pur- poses other than projects included in the annual plan (including interbank loans and foreign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad); (2) foreign exchange deposit-taking by other financial institutions; (3) short-term trade credits; (4) borrowing by joint-venture and 100 percent foreign-owned com- panies; and (5) lease financing. The plan of external borrowing for a specified future period must be approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agencies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFTEC, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. The proposals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which the loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFTEC, recommends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments require the clearance of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international devel- opment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Ministry); intergovernmental loans are the respon- sibility of MOFTEC, and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the SAEC. Local governments and enterprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies, such as ITICs, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Resi- dent organizations issuing securities for foreign exchange must be approved by the PBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA All medium- and long-term commercial borrow- ing abroad (including bond issues) under the plan requires prior approval from the SAEC on a case-by-case basis. Commercial borrowing can be channeled through one of several domestic enti- ties—the BOC, specialized banks, the CITIC, and regional ITICs, which are allocated borrowing quo- tas under the annual plan. The CITIC has been per- mitted, on an experimental basis, to borrow abroad without first obtaining approval for each loan from the SAEC as long as its outstanding debt balance is within the limits set by the SAEC. Financial institu- tions are permitted an annual ceiling for the balance outstanding on short-term loans. All foreign direct investment projects are, in prin- ciple, subject to the approval of MOFTEC. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct investment projects up to specified amounts. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up for insufficient domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and wholly foreign- owned companies are required to balance their for- eign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to the SAEC.10 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; out- ward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploitation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao. When a joint venture ceases operation, the net claims belong- ing to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the venture's foreign exchange account. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of paid-in capital. The profits of joint ventures in special economic zones, the 14 coastal cities, the newly opened inland and border cities, and of those exploiting petro- leum, natural gas, and other specified resources are subject to tax at the rate of 15 percent; the tax rate for others is 40 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent local government surcharge on the assessed tax). A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profit-making years and allowed reductions of 50 percent for the 10 To help individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit through the foreign exchange adjustment centers. following three years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be economically underdevel- oped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a further 15-30 percent reduc- tion in income tax for another 10 years. A partici- pant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations with establishments in China that are engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business operations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax only on their net income from sources in China. Under the Income Tax Law of the PRC for enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises (July 1, 1991), a standard income tax rate of 33 percent is levied on all foreign invest- ment enterprises and foreign enterprises; it con- sists of a 30 percent state income tax and a 3 percent local tax. Certain exemptions and reduc- tions from income tax are available in the special economic zones and other special open investment areas. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Correspondingly, foreign state banks located in countries where income from interest on the deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempt from income tax are also exempt from this Chinese tax. Foreign businesses without establish- ments in China are subject to a reduced tax of 10 percent (half the usual rate) on interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit, trade, and leasing agreements made with Chinese companies and enterprises from 1983 to 1985 but only for the duration of the agreements. For fees collected by foreign business- men for the use of special technology provided in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, envi- ronmental protection, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, with the approval of the tax authorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent or waived for advanced technology provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as a working balance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 115 Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The exchange rate at which the state sold 30 percent of foreign exchange purchased from exporters to certain enterprises was changed from the official rate to the prevailing swap market exchange rate. Imports and Exports December 31. The import-licensing requirements were eliminated for the following products: steel products; steel billets; steel scrap; traditional medi- cine; polycarbonate; coffee and coffee products; civilian aircraft; assembly of processing equipment; and black and white picture tubes. Interim mea- sures were introduced for the administration of imports of machinery and electric products (which were previously covered by the import substitution list) for protective purposes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles March 1. Residents were permitted to take out Y 6,000 each time they leave the country. Changes During 1994 Imports and Exports January 1. The mandatory annual import plan was abolished. January I. The foreign exchange retention system was abolished; enterprises may continue to use out- standing retention quotas to purchase foreign exchange at the official exchange rate prevailing at the end of December 1993. The requirement that the SAEC must approve purchases of foreign exchange for trade and trade-related transactions was abol- ished. Foreign exchange for trade transactions may be purchased from designated banks, provided that the importer has a valid import contract and a notice of payment from a foreign financial institu- tion; for imports subject to licensing, quotas, or reg- istration procedures, these documents would also be required. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January I. FECs ceased to be issued, and those in circulation would be withdrawn from circulation step by step; existing FECs may continue to be used at the official exchange rate prevailing at the end of December 1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of January 31 ,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All foreign exchange operations take place at a mar- ket-determined exchange rate. The Superinten- dency of Banks calculates a representative market exchange rate based on market rates.1 The Banco de la Republica conducts foreign exchange transac- tions only with the Ministry of Finance and autho- rized financial intermediaries and does not conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the pri- vate sector. The Banco de la Republica quotes buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1993, the representative market exchange rate was Col$802.71 per US$1. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports (certifica- dos de reembolso tributaries or CERTs) granted at three different percentage rates; (2) a 12 percent surtax on remittances of earnings on existing non-oil foreign investments (to be gradually reduced to 7 percent by 1996), a 15 percent surtax on remittances of earnings on existing foreign investments in the oil sector (to be reduced to 12 percent in 1996), and a 12 percent surtax on remittances of earnings from new foreign invest- ments (also to be reduced to 7 percent in 1996); and (3) a 10 percent withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers. The Government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget under the same con- ditions as other authorized intermediaries.3 Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange rate risks in respect of foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the Banco de la Republica on international mar- kets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in U.S. dollars. lpThe representative market exchange rate is calculated as the weighted average of buying and selling, effected by foreign exchange market intermediaries, excluding teller transactions (Resolution No. 21 of September 3,1993). 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 The Banco de la Republica stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio) to All imports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). The Customs and Taxes Direction (DIAN), within the Ministry of Finance, enforces ex post control and supervision over trade transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regula- tions. The authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial banks, financial corporations, Finan- ciera Energetica Nacional (FEN) and Banco de Comer- cio Exterior de Colombia (BANCOLDEX), and savings and loans corporations. Commercial banks are required to hold a net foreign exchange position equivalent to at least 45 percent of their foreign exchange liabilities (outstanding at the end of June 1991). There are no regulations governing the net for- eign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign holdings to authorized financial intermediaries, because they do not have access to the Banco de la Republica. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export pol- icy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and administers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Com- mittee on Commercial Practices, administers anti- dumping cases. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) issues directives to the Banco de la Republica and the National Planning Department concerning direct investment in Colombia. The Banco de la Republica keeps an public enterprises in the electric sector and the National Federa- tion of Coffee Growers (Federation National de Cafeteros) in accordance with the terms of Resolution 16/1991 of the Banco de la Republica. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 12 months and, in some cases, may also be exchanged for exchange certificates. Within their period of valid- ity, warrants may also be sold to the Banco de la Republica for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repur- chase. Warrants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the exter- nal loan, but never higher than the average 30-day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued less 1 percentage point if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 12 months may not be con- verted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Banco de la Republica at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twelfth month. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 117 accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, and commissions. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but residents and financial intermediar- ies are allowed to carry out operations in any cur- rency. Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has reciprocal credit agreements may be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agree- ments. Settlements between Colombia and Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Ven- ezuela may be made through accounts maintained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agree- ments with the People's Republic of China, Hungary, and the Russian Federation. Nonresident Accounts Residents may maintain foreign accounts, regis- tered at the Banco de la Republica (compensation accounts), to pay for imports, to invest abroad in financial assets, or to carry out any other foreign exchange operations. Proceeds from services (except interest and profits) and transfers may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad; these accounts do not have to be registered at the Banco de la Republica. Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms; these depos- its are freely available to the holders. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the Banco de la Republica. Imports and Import Payments Importers may obtain foreign exchange from the exchange market with exchange certificates pur- chased in the market or may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from financial intermediaries. Import payments must be made within six months of the due date of payment indicated in the import registration form; otherwise they are treated as debt (as discussed below). Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring reg- istration only with INCOMEX;4 and (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license. Most imports are in the free-import regime, where there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA and members of the Andean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing requirement consist of medicines and chemical products (30 tariff positions) and weapons and munitions (39 tariff positions). A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchases of official foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, including imports of machin- ery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodi- ties constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically However, import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for 6 months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for 3 months, and those for capital goods, which are valid for 12 months. Import licenses may be extended for only one period. The charge for import registration is Col$12,800. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the average sell- ing rate for exchange certificates dur ing the previ- ous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles may be obtained through foreign exchange intermediar- ies or exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by private sector exporters must be surrendered within six months to authorized finan- cial intermediaries or be maintained in foreign accounts registered at the Banco de la Republica. 4 Imports or shipments w i th an f .o.b. va lue of less than US$500 are classified as minor imports and do not have to be registered with INCOMEX. All other imports are subject to registration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 COLOMBIA All exchange proceeds from exports of goods must be surrendered to authorized financial intermediar- ies or for exchange certificates that can be sold in the free market. However, exporters are permitted to retain their export proceeds abroad, in compensation accounts, to settle import payments, to invest in financial assets, to pay back debt, or any other pay- ment operation. However, all exchange proceeds from exports that are repatriated must be surren- dered to authorized financial intermediaries or for exchange certificates. In addition, foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free trade areas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. On surrendering their export pro- ceeds in the foreign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates in an amount cor- responding to a specified percentage of the f.o.b. value surrendered. Three rates—2.5 percent, 4 per- cent, and 5 percent—are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; the rates are calculated on domestic value added. These certifi- cates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regu- lations: (1) a minimum surrender price is fixed on the basis of the international market prices; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution, which is determined by the difference between the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic buying price for export-type coffee; (3) exporters pay a 6.4 percent tax on surrendered export proceeds, of which 2.7 per- cent is earmarked for the National Federation of Cof- fee Growers, and 3.7 percent for the National Coffee Fund; (4) exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) a certain proportion of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export or pay the National Federation of Cof- fee Growers the peso equivalent if the National Cof- fee Committee (composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation) so decides (as of the end of 1991, this provision was not in operation); and (5) the National Coffee Committee establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by the public sector may be surrendered to financial intermediar- ies or to the Banco de la Republica for foreign exchange certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from services and transfers are not required to be surrendered through the for- eign exchange market but may be sold to exchange houses or to financial intermediaries or used through foreign accounts. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at market rates. All foreign investments and foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank resi- dents,5 and the transfer of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2,1965) must be reg- istered with the Banco de la Republica. Foreign direct investments in Colombia are governed by Law No. 9 of 1991 (January 17, 1991) and CONPES Resolution No. 49, 51-57 of 1991. These regulations are in accordance with the provisions of Decision Nos. 291 and 292 of the Cartagena Agreement, which govern foreign investments within the mem- ber countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign invest- ment is freely allowed up to 100 percent of ownership in any sector of the economy except in defense and waste disposal. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sec- tors. While foreign capital participation in the financial sector is permitted up to 100 percent, the purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Banks. CONPES can legislate special conditions affecting foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy and overrule the above-mentioned provisions (CONPES Resolution No. 49, 51-57 of October 1991). Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colom- bian investors for purposes of fulfilling the Colom- bian ownership requirement, provided that profit and capital remittances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Registration of capital with the Banco de la Republica entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. Limitations on annual transfers of profits abroad were abolished in October 1991. Colombian invest- 5 Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also require registration. Public sector loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 119 ment abroad should also be registered at the Banco de la Republica. Short-term foreign borrowing to finance any activity is permitted. Foreign loans with a maturity of less than 18 months are subject to a 12-month nonremunerated deposit requirement of 47 percent. Exempted from the 12-month deposit requirement are credits for imports of capital goods, short-term loans granted by BANCOLDEX to Colombian export- ers,6 credit card balances, loans destined for Colom- bian investments abroad, and green coffee, coal, and oil preshipment financing.7 The limit on con- tractual interest rates of 2.5 percent over LIBOR or the U.S. prime rate remains in effect for the public sector, and there is a limit of 20 percent a year in U.S. dollar terms for the private sector. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authorization from the Min- istry of Finance and the National Planning Depart- ment. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Government, the following are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and from the Banco de la Republica; prior consultation with the Interpar- liamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also subject to the executive decree that authorizes the initiation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, or patents should be registered with INCOMEX, for statistical purposes only. Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad. 6 BANCOLDEX is entitled to lend up to US$350 million under this regime. 7 Up to a total of US$100 for each product. These loans should be registered with the Banco de la Republica in order to avoid exceeding the limits. Gold Under Law No. 9 of January 17,1991, Colombian residents are allowed to purchase, sell, hold, import, and export gold. The Banco de la Republica makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equiva- lent to the average quotation in the gold market in London during the previous day; this price is con- verted into pesos at the representative market exchange rate. The Banco de la Republica from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 21. The system of exchange certificates was abolished. Administration of Control September 2. Savings and loan corporations and other financial corporations were allowed to oper- ate as foreign exchange intermediaries. Proceeds from Invisibles September 2. Surrender requirements were abol- ished for receipts from all services (except those from interest and profit). Capital September 2. The requirement that short-term for- eign loans must carry a minimum maturity period of one year was abolished. Loans with maturities of less than 18 months were subject to a deposit require- ment of 47 percent. Foreign exchange intermediaries were authorized to engage in lending operations denominated in foreign currency both domestically and abroad and in hedging operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 per F 0.0133. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 75 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is autho- rized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial bank (the only authorized dealer) for up to three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ment. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the com- mercial bank and the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1 Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain goods is prohibited from all countries. The importation of other goods, except those originating from member countries of the European Union, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to individual licens- ing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Invisible payments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when supporting docu- ments can be produced, in accordance with Article 3 of Instruction No. 2 of the Exchange Regulations. These regulations apply to allowances for educa- tion, family maintenance, and medical treatment, as well as to remittances by foreign workers of savings from their earnings. Residents traveling as tourists to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries may take out in any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. For business travel, the Central Bank of the Comoros may authorize a special allowance on the request of the authorized bank. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 121 Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without provid- ing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the Exchange Regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be col- lected; the receipts must be repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coins. Capital Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permit- ted freely Special controls (in addition to any applicable exchange control requirements) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The Comorian franc was devalued from CF 50 to CF 75 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. Payments to France and its overseas departments and territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as purchases of these coun- tries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are subject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are payments of the state, the Postal Administra- tion, the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from com- panies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to foreign accounts in francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent, and foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office is sub- ject to a commission of 0.50 percent, with a mini- mum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, lrThe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and invest- ment transactions with all foreign countries, how- ever, are subject to control. (Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo.) The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the For- eign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Com- merce. The system of import licenses has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations for all but 13 products (Decree No. 88/414, May 28,1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by for- eign correspondents of authorized banks mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazaville, may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaration or a license. An annual import program classifies imports by zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Cus- toms and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Operations Account countries; (4) European Union (EU) countries other than France; and (5) all 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO 123 remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this program require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EU countries may be used to import goods originating in any non-Operations Account country. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'assurances et de reassur- ances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided that they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are per- mitted with the authorization of the General Director- ate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip. Allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Minis- try of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning res- ident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been pur- chased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires doc- umentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trav- eler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely; among the exceptions are com- modities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et du cacao and Office des cultures vivrieres) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office con- golais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transac- tions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 CONGO of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, although ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authoriza- tion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the minister. Both the making and the liq- uidation of direct investments, whether Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the minister within 20 days. (Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise.) 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. 3 Including those involving the transfer, between nonresidents, of hinds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization from the Minister of Finance and the Bud- get. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. However, loans contracted by registered banks and smalHoans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign curren- cies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Rela- tions within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The code provides for four cat- egories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO 125 ject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. The Congo (and other member countries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the member countries of the BEAC. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Following this decision, the BEAC member countries adopted regu- lations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the member countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BEAC countries, the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BCEAO coun- tries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations provided that residents could obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the BEAC member countries increased the previous limits: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 100,000 a day with a maxi- mum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 mil- lion a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel to non-BEAC countries. With regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of payment, the new reg- ulations introduced for all BEAC countries a uniform requirement of declaration at customs and of surren- dering within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros and other coun- tries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of pay- ment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Until February 29,1992, Costa Rica followed a flexible exchange rate arrangement, under which the exchange rate was adjusted periodically, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading partners and balance of payments developments. On March 1, 1992, a new exchange rate arrangement was introduced, which allowed commercial banks and other financial insti- tutions, under the supervision of the Auditor Gen- eral of Financial Institutions, to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates immediately, for current transactions (including debt-service pay- ments) and as of June 1,1992 for other capital trans- actions.1 Ninety percent of export receipts are required to be sold to the authorized entities at mar- ket rates, and 25 percent of all foreign exchange purchased by those entities is required to be sold to the Central Bank of Costa Rica, which would meet its additional requirements from the market and would intervene, as needed, to smooth out large swings in the exchange rate. The Government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transactions directly with the Central Bank. These operations are carried out at the reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the average of the exchange rates observed in the market during the previous working day. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1993, the buying and sell- ing bank rates were C 150.71 and C 152.17, respec- tively, per US$1. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1,1965. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are issued by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank, the state commercial banks, private banks, and 1 In November 1992, traders at the stock exchange were also permitted to operate in the foreign exchange market. other nonbank financial institutions authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears of the nonfinancial public sector are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are subject to licensing require- ments. All payments for imports may be made freely. All imports must be registered with the Central Bank before removal from customs with the following exceptions: (1) temporary imports; (2) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; and (3) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations. Imports made on a bar- ter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Customs tar iff rates on most goods range from zero to 20 percent. In addition to any applicable customs ta r i f f, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 11 percent ad valorem, from which cer- tain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on the essential quality of the item. Minibuses for collective transportation and other vehicles are subject to the selective consumption tax at the following rates: (1) those with a customs value of less than $7,000,12 percent; (2) those with a customs value exceeding $7,000, with displacement of up to 1,500 cubic centimeters, 20 percent; (3) those with a customs value exceeding $7,000, with displacement of more than 1,500 cubic centi- meters, 30 percent; and (4) others, depending on value, displacement, and accessories, 25 percent. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; those with a weight of over 1 ton are exempt. Pickup trucks are subject to a selective con- sumption tax of 15 percent. Chassis of less than 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; dual-cab chassis weighing less than 1 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 127 ton are subject to a selective consumption tax of 15 percent; and dual-cab pickup trucks weighing more than 1 ton are subject to 15 percent. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent are levied on remittances of dividends. The 5 percent withhold- ing tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock companies whose shares were acquired at an offi- cially acknowledged stock exchange. Remittances of interest abroad are subject to a 15 percent with- holding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Cen- tral Bank as institutions normally engaged in inter- national transactions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Central Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for industrial or agricultural/livestock activities. Interest on gov- ernment borrowing abroad is exempt. Costa Rican nationals, tourists, and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, land, or sea must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to $31; Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of $20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. Costa Rican diplomats and their dependents and staff of international organizations pay an exit fee of only C 117, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Capital inflows can be regis- tered in advance at the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are allowed to keep up to 10 percent of export proceeds in foreign currency to care for their own needs. They must sell, at the market buying exchange rate, no less than 90 percent of their export proceeds to any financial institution autho- rized to operate in foreign exchange. In turn, that financial institution must transfer to the Central Bank 25 percent of total purchases of foreign exchange related to exports. The exchange rate applicable to this transfer is the buying exchange rate of the institution plus C 0.10 per US$1. Export- ers of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive freely nego- tiable tax credit certificates (CATs) at the following rates based on the f.o.b. value: 15 percent for exports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20 percent for exports to Canada.2 Exports are subject to a formulario unico de expor- tation (issued by Centro para la Promocion de Exportaciones) for foreign exchange control pur- poses. In addition to this license, other export licenses are required for strategic goods, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Econ- omy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, root of ipecacuanha, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); textiles; flowers, lumber, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, and bovine cattle must be sur- rendered within 30 days of shipment; those from exports of other perishable agricultural items, within 60 days of shipment; those from exports of industrial products (excluding those indicated next) and other agricultural products, within 120 days of shipment; those from exports of durable and semi- durable industrial consumer products, within 180 days of shipment; and those from exports of capital goods, within 360 days of shipment. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be exchanged into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers, and capital transactions between residents and nonresi- dents are permitted. Private sector capital inflows must be registered at the Central Bank if the 2 CATs ceased to be issued to new exporters after December 31, 1992. Existing exporters continue to benefit from the CATs con- sistent with their specific contractual arrangements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 COSTA RICA amount exceeds $5,000; the individual concerned is not required to sell the foreign exchange to the Cen- tral Bank. This registration does not imply that the Central Bank is required to sell to him the exchange required to service the debt. An annual limit of 6.25 percent of the face value of the debt converted is imposed on dividend remittances associated with debt-equity conversions. The National Budget Authority3 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, decentral- ized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Natural and juridical persons may buy or sell, subject to approval from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infrac- tion of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users or to enterprises that export jewelry Changes During 1993 3 Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote cTIvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF I per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU; commissions must be surrendered to the treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin/Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential com- modities; no renewal of cover is possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of the Trea- sury of Money and Banking Affa irs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, only for pay- ments for imports of goods and only for the cur- rency stipulated in the commercial contract. There ]The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the f l at commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. are no official schemes for currency swaps or guar- anteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury of Money and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import licenses for a short list of controlled prod- ucts (Decree No. 93-313 of March 11, 1993) are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promo- tion in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to the external debt-servicing obligations of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Since Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO bank notes circulating out- side the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. For- eign accounts in francs may not be debited, without 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 COTE D'lVOIRE prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) pro- hibited imports (e.g., wheat, flour, and used gar- ments); (2) items for which import licenses are required (e.g., petroleum products); and (3) freely importable items, for which a statistical declaration is required if the transaction equals or exceeds CFAF 1 million. Certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. For example, rice imports are intended to supplement domestic production to satisfy domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any coun- try; however, importers of goods whose f.o.b. value exceeds CFAF 1 million must file an import infor- mation form. Imports whose f.o.b. value is CFAF 3 million or more must be inspected by inter- national agencies before shipment to verify their price, quantity, and quality. A statistical tax of 2.5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. During 1989, tariffs were raised with a view to har- monizing effective protection of local production. The tariff rates were subsequently reduced in January 1992, October 1993, and January 1994, at which time the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 35 percent. For some goods, quotas were replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to decline pro- gressively over the five years that began in 1988. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations valued at more than CFAF 500,000 conducted with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank; trans- actions of lower value must also be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15,1981, foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident finan- cial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. Nonresident travelers may freely re-export means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase the means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the trav- eler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 131 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a customs declaration but not a license. Prior authorization is required for exports of diamonds and certain metals, such as gold. Exports of lumber are subject to quotas allocated through auction. Exports of certain types of wood are prohibited. Reference prices and indicative pro- ducer prices for exports of cocoa and coffee (in f.o.b.) are announced at the beginning of each new crop season on October 1 by the Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund. Exports of these products are subject to a specific export tax (DUS). Payment for exports to foreign countries, includ- ing those in the Operations Account Area, must be made within 180 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of set- tlement and of the country of destination, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declara- tion to customs upon entry. Capital Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply, are maintained over borrowing abroad by the private sector, for- eign inward direct investment, all outward direct investment in foreign countries, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations, as well as issues by Cote d'lvoire companies, require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) foreign shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Cote d'lvoire must be autho- rized in advance by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.4 Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of direct and other invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must also be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of investments, whether Ivoirien investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. 4 Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 COTE D'lVOIRE Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote dTvoire, or those by approved international trading houses to finance international trade trans- actions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower and pro- vided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the for- malities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tar iffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for investment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote dTvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempt for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption cov- ers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the four th- to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third- to-last year, 50 percent in the second-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year. Imports of raw mate- rials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote dTvoire. Imports and exports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning; authorization is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Cote dTvoire (and the other member countries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA f ranc bank notes issued by their common central bank (BCEAO) that were in circulation out- side the territories of the CFA f ranc zone. The guar- anteed convertibility of the CFA f ranc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained in effect. Following this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provi- sions for travel abroad. The regulations would be un iform among the member countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the f ranc zone. For travel to other f ranc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits pertaining to the amount of bank notes that can be taken out by trav- elers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the WAMU member countries increased the previous limits as follows: (1) for tourist travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limits on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for busi- ness travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceil- ing of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances can be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; (4) credit cards, which must be issued by res- ident financial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministries of finance, could be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel to countries outside the WAMU; and (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of payment, the new regulations require that all WAMU countries declare at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 133 equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their posses- sion. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros and other countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. The new regulations stipulated that nonresident travelers must declare all foreign exchange upon entry The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations increased to a uniform limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restriction. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceil- ings would require documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Imports and Import Payments January 19. The revision of the tariff regime that began in October 1992 was completed. The new regime would consist of a single customs duty rate of 5 percent and six fiscal duties ranging from 5 per- cent to 30 percent. A few specific rates were retained on some products. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. The export premium on locally manu- factured products and agricultural products (excluding unprocessed coffee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples) was eliminated. January 25. The specific export tax (DUS) on cocoa and coffee was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian Dinar,1 the external value of which is determined in the interbank market. The exchange rates in the inter- bank market are determined by authorized banks that transact with each other at freely negotiated rates. The National Bank of Croatia may set inter- vention exchange rates at which it will transact with banks outside the interbank market for pur- poses of smoothing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. On December 31, 1993, the average interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar was HrD 6,561 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Law on the Foreign Exchange System, Foreign Exchange Operations, and Gold Transactions, which was enacted on October 1, 1993. The National Bank formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations under this law. A foreign trade law (coordinated with domestic trade legis- lation) is under preparation. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. Foreign direct investment and the representative offices of foreign companies must be registered w i th the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Foreign exchange transactions must be con- ducted through authorized banks; currently 40 commercial banks in Croatia are licensed to con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Restricted licenses are given to banks that may open accounts for resident natural persons and may buy and sell bank notes and checks (currently four banks). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. l rThe Croatian dinar is an interim currency, and the authorities are planning to replace it with a permanent currency by the end of May 1994. Croatia maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment with Slovenia, under which trade between the two countries may be settled through accounts in local currency or in any foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the National Bank has the authority to allow resident juridical persons to keep foreign exchange in accounts with foreign banks in order to cover the costs of business operations and meet the requirement of regular foreign trade activ- ities abroad. The law also makes specific provisions for resident juridical persons engaged in capital project construction abroad to maintain accounts with foreign banks, subject to a license issued by the National Bank. Under a bilateral payments agreement, residents of Croatia and Slovenia are free to open and operate accounts in domestic currency in the other country but must report them to the National Bank for mon- itoring purposes. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from exports, and balances in these accounts can be used only for import pay- ments or investments in Croatia. Withdrawals in cash are not permitted without special permission from the National Bank. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fully licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad for con- version into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic currency into a foreign currency is per- mitted. Juridical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign bank notes without special permission from the National Bank. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open accounts in domestic currency with the pro- ceeds from sales of goods and services or with for- eign exchange transferred from abroad. Juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange with funds held in these accounts without restriction, but natu- ral persons may purchase foreign exchange only for specified purposes, for example, in receipt of an inheritance, or to pay alimony, if their country of res- idence grants the same right to Croatian residents. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 135 Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Pending the introduction of a new import regime, the prod- uct classification of the import regime of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is maintained, with a free list (LB), a list of items sub- ject to quotas, and a list of items subject to ad hoc licensing (D). Items on the free list (just under 6,000 out of a total of about 6,600) comprise about 90 percent of the value of imports. Of the restricted items, only 0.1 percent of imports are subject to licensing, and 10.2 percent to quotas. The Ministry of Economy, in consultation with the Chamber of Commerce, administers the quotas and licensing. List D includes items whose importation is controlled by international agreement for noneconomic reasons (e.g., arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work). The importation of these items is allowed on a case-by-case basis and for spe- cific purposes. Imports from Slovenia are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports are subject to a customs tar iff of up to 18 percent (compared with up to 25 percent in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) plus a tax of up to 10 percent, and a customs administration fee of 1 percent. Imports from the Republic of Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are exempt from the basic import tariff, provided that the goods are com- pletely produced in these countries or their domes- tic value added through local processing is at least 51 percent. Imports from these countries are, how- ever, not exempt from the 10 percent tax and the customs administration fee of 1 percent. The exemption for duty-free imports by travelers is $100. Goods imported by travelers and postal ship- ments up to the value of $500 are subject to a sim- plified customs procedure with a unified tariff rate of 8 percent. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are applied. Return- ing citizens may bring into the country household effects duty free up to the equivalent of $45,000 for household effects and $100,000 for private business purposes. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw materials and intermediate products used in the production of exports are exempt from all import duties and taxes, except the 1 percent customs fee, provided that the value added of the export product is at least 30 percent of the value of the imported items and that export proceeds are received in convertible currency. These imports are subject only to a 1 per- cent customs fee. Payments for authorized imports by juridical per- sons are not restricted. Advance payments for imports are not permitted, except where down pay- ments are required by suppliers in accordance with customary international practices and in accordance with the National Bank's regulations. Resident natu- ral persons may also make import payments with their foreign currency account balances. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports by juridical persons may be made freely. Payments of leasing fees are permitted provided that temporary imports have been registered with the Customs Office. Natural persons may also pur- chase foreign exchange in the interbank market for the payment of goods and services abroad and for deposit in a foreign exchange account for the pur- pose of future payments. Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange only for authorized payments abroad, except to make payments for activities related to scientific, humanitarian, cul- tural, or sport events. Payments of royalties, insur- ance, and legal obligations are also permitted. Contracting of life and casualty insurance policies with foreign companies is prohibited. Resident natural persons may take out of the country foreign currency equivalent to DM 1,000. An additional amount equivalent up to DM 2,000 may be taken out, provided that it is withdrawn from foreign currency accounts or purchased from banks for travel expenses. In both cases the National Bank may allow higher amounts to be taken out on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresi- dents is limited to HrD 2 million a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. In princi- ple, exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (list D products: e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); several basic foodstuffs to ensure adequate domes- tic supplies; and high-quality wood. Export proceeds must be collected and repatri- ated in full to Croatia within 60 days of the date of exportation; this period may be extended with the permission of the National Bank. If payment terms in excess of 60 days have been agreed with foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 CROATIA importers, the credit arrangement must be regis- tered with the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those applying to mer- chandise exports. The importation of Croatian cur- rency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HrD 2 million a person. Capital Resident juridical persons, including commercial banks, may borrow abroad. They are required to register the loans contracted, including commercial credits, with the National Bank. Financial credits may be extended to nonresidents only if they are financed from profits or credit obtained from abroad. Natural persons are not permitted to obtain or extend loans to nonresidents in domestic or for- eign currency. The foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are subject to a limit. Foreign direct investment by nonresidents may take the form of joint ventures or full ownership, except in the financial sector. Repatriation of capital and transfers abroad of profits are not restricted. In principle, domestic and foreign investment is treated equally, but in practice nonresident inves- tors enjoy certain benefits. If the foreign equity cap- ital participation exceeds 20 percent, inputs used in the project are exempt from import duties. Earnings in the first year of operation are exempt from the profit tax, and 50 percent and 25 percent of earn- ings in the second and third years, respectively, are exempt from the profit tax. Foreign direct invest- ment abroad by residents must be registered with the Ministry. Such investment must generally be undertaken through loans abroad or through rein- vestment of profits. Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, but outward portfolio investment is. Nonresident natural persons may acquire real estate in Croatia through inheritance as long as their country of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may purchase real estate only under the same conditions but must have permission from the Ministry of For- eign Affairs. Nonresident natural or juridical persons engaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these conditions and may sell it to resident or nonresident juridical persons. In principle, residents may acquire real estate abroad on the basis of reciprocity of treatment, but in prac- tices, they are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market for this purpose; the use of balances in foreign exchange accounts for this purpose is also prohibited. Gold The exportation or importation of gold, except unprocessed gold by producers of gold and gold coins or by authorized commercial banks, is subject to the approval of the National Bank. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement October 22. An interbank market in which the exchange rates are determined by market condi- tions was introduced. Administration of Control October 22. A new foreign exchange law came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound, the external value of which is pegged to a basket based on the European currency unit (ECU) at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, within margins of ±2.25 percent around the ECU central rate. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.5185 and £C 0.5205, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the ECU, deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to certain limitations, including a limit on spreads between the buying and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the forward market at rates that may be freely negoti- ated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward rates may not d iffer by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a simi- lar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to pur- chase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The Central Bank offers autho- rized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When justified (for example, payments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. Forward cover may also be provided for up to 12 months to resi- dents for specific financial commitments. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Cyprus formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 9,1991. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an external account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an external account, or in any foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated external accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency accounts), pro- ceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresi- dents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. Exter- nal accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pay- ments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Compa- nies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain external accounts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Res- ident persons and firms dealing with transit trade or engaged in manufacturer-exporter activities or in the 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 CYPRUS hotel business may open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts subject to certain requirements. Resi- dents dealing with transit trade may deposit up to 95 percent of sale proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for the value of traded goods. Resi- dents engaged in manufacturer-exporter activities may deposit up to 50 percent of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in production. Both transit trad- ers and manufacturers-exporters are, however, required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any balances in excess of the amount that is necessary for payments of the value of traded goods of raw materials during the following three months. Cypriot repatriates may keep in foreign cur- rency, in external accounts in Cyprus, or in accounts abroad all of their foreign currency holdings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or govern- ment-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresi- dent beneficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to £C 10,000 in principal may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus. Funds can also be released from blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, includ- ing educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of licensing requirements. An import license is required for certain commodi- ties such as fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, fresh meat, and other goods produced or manufactured locally. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may amend the list of commodities subject to licensing as deemed necessary to regulate the importation of goods for the encouragement of local production and manufacture and for the improvement of the balance of payments. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documentary evi- dence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 20,000. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents of Cyprus foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; foreign exchange in excess of this limit may be sold to departing residents with the approval of the Central Bank. An import sur- charge of 3.8 percent (2.5 percent for imports from European Union countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports, except food, pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad without limitation, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums owed to foreign insurance companies may be remit- ted after all contingencies have been deducted. Non- residents who are temporarily employed in Cyprus by resident firms or individuals and are paid in local currency may transfer abroad their remuneration less local living expenses and taxes. Allowances are granted to residents for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower-level institu- tions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living which is reviewed yearly, and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. The current annual allow- ance for living expenses for studies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 4,600; for Greece, £C 3,000; for Canada and the United States, £C 6,600; for Australia, £C 4,000; and for all other countries, £C 3,000. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Authorized dealers are allowed, without any ref- erence to the Central Bank, to sell to resident travel- ers foreign exchange up to £C 750 a person a trip for tourist travel; the Central Bank approves applica- tions for allocations of additional foreign exchange without limitation to cover genuine travel expenses. The allowance for business travel is not fixed but depends on the length of stay abroad. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 150 a day with a maximum of £C 1,500 a trip; additional amounts may be granted with the approval of the Central Bank on proof of need. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 139 Company credit cards valid abroad are issued to resident businessmen and professionals traveling abroad on business. These international credit cards entitle the holders to charge their expenses for hotels, restaurants, and transportation without limit and any other expenses up to £C 400 a trip, including cash withdrawals of up to £C 100. If the resident traveler holds an international credit card, authorized dealers are allowed to provide an allow- ance of up to £C 80 a day in foreign exchange with a maximum of £C 800 a trip for business travel. Addi- tional amounts for business travel may be provided with the approval of the Central Bank. In addition, enterprises may use international credit cards for payments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items. Authorized dealers are also allowed to issue personal credit cards, valid abroad, to cer- tain categories of residents. Foreign exchange for medical expenses abroad is granted without limit, and authorized dealers are empowered to provide allowances of up to £C 3,000 without reference to the Central Bank. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that departing residents may take out of the coun- try as part of any of their foreign exchange allow- ances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival less expenses incurred in Cyprus. Nonresi- dents entering Cyprus must declare any foreign exchange that they plan to use to purchase goods to export, or to purchase properties, or to deposit with authorized dealers. Nonresidents may export up to $1,000 in foreign currency notes which they imported even if they were not declared on arrival. In addition, authorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresi- dents and are; permitted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against exter- nal funds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports whose value exceeds £C 1,000 are subject to exchange control monitoring to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers without delay. Exports of potatoes and carrots are carried out by the respective marketing boards, and exports of wheat, barley, and maize are carried out by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature require authorization from the Central Bank. Direct invest- ment abroad by residents is permitted, provided that the proposed investments will promote exports of goods and services or will benefit the Cypriot economy. Outward portfolio investment by resi- dents is not permitted, except for insurance compa- nies (up to 15 percent of their reserves), Cypriots who are allowed to hold foreign currency accounts, and resident employees of multinational enter- prises who may participate in the employee stock purchase plan offered to them by their employer. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible for- eign exchange savings or earnings, the introduction of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the national economy. Foreigners may own up to 100 percent of the capital of enterprises engaged in the manufacture of goods exclusively for export. For- eign participation of up to 49 percent is allowed for manufacture of new products, certain tourist activi- ties, and other industrial projects. Inward investment is particularly welcome in projects which upgrade the tourist product (e.g., marinas, golf courses, and theme parks). In sectors of specific treatment such as banking and finance, applications are examined on a case-by-case basis. Foreign direct investment is dis- couraged in saturated sectors such as trading, real estate development, travel agencies, restaurants, and local transportation. Foreign participation in inward portfolio investment in listed company securities is permitted up to a limit of 30 percent generally and 40 percent in investment companies and mutual funds. Foreigners are allowed to purchase govern- ment securities in domestic currency. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved for- eign investments, including capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time after payment of taxes. Commercial credits from abroad with a maturity of less than 200 days may be negotiated freely. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, nonresi- dent aliens may acquire immovable property in Cyprus for use as a residence or holiday home; they must, however, purchase such property with foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 CYPRUS transferable abroad up to the original purchase price of the property; the remaining balance is transferable at an annual rate of £C 10,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots purchasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nation- als) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 20,000; any excess amount is deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 10,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds from estates and intesta- cies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is limited to £C 10,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a blocked account and also released at the rate of £C 10,000 a year. Interest earned on a blocked account can be freely transferred abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by resi- dents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The exportation of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles February 1. The Central Bank delegated authority to authorized dealers to approve, without reference to the Central Bank, applications by nonresident workers who are temporarily employed by resident firms or individuals in Cyprus to deposit up to £C 200 of their monthly remuneration in external or foreign currency accounts, the balance of which may be freely transferred abroad. The approval of the Central Bank is required for deposits or trans- fers of greater amounts. October 11. The allowance for business travel which authorized dealers can provide without ref- erence to the Central Bank was increased to £C 150 a day with a maximum of £C 1,500 a trip from £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000 a trip . Exports and Export Proceeds November 15. The statutory export license require- ment was abolished. When deemed necessary, on public interest grounds or in order to comply with the country's international obligations, the Minister of Commerce and Industry may issue a decree restricting the export of a commodity or restricting exports to a specific destination. Capital January 1. The amount that may be released annually from blocked accounts for transfer abroad was increased to £C 10,000, from £C 5,000, and the limits on assets emigrants may transfer abroad on departure was raised to £C 20,000 from £C 10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech Koruna (plural: Koruny).2 Its external value is determined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar.3 This exchange rate applies to all transactions except with the Slovak Republic. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were Kcs 29.805 and Kcs 30.105, respectively, per US$1. A floating exchange rate applies to tourist transactions with the Slovak Republic. The Czech National Bank (CNB) quotes daily buying and selling rates for 22 convertible curren- cies,4 European currency units (ECUs), and SDRs. The market value of the koruna, which is deter- mined at daily fixing sessions attended by the CNB and participants in the domestic interbank foreign exchange market, is allowed to fluctuate within a margin of ±0.5 percent around its theoretical level based on exchange rates in the international mar- ket. The exchange rates for other currencies are based on the cross rates of these currencies against the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates set at the daily fixing sessions are used as the official exchange rates at which customers can choose to trade the next day. Forward foreign exchange transactions are permitted. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are respon- sible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority over governmental credits and over bud- getary and subsidized organizations, civic associa- lrThe Czech Republic became a member of the IMF on January 1, 1993 through the membership of the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. 2 Koruny were issued on February 8,1993 following the disso- lution of the currency union with the Slovak Republic, which had used the Czechoslovak koruna as currency. 3 Before May 3, 1993, the basket consisted of five currencies (deutsche mark, U.S. dollar, Austrian schilling, Swiss franc, and French franc). 4Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. tions, churches, religious societies, foundations, and other legal persons not engaged in business activities and over the nonbusiness activities of natural per- sons. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all registered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from countries with which the Czech Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements may be effected in the currencies stipulated or in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements.5 Settlements with coun- tries with which the Czech Republic does not have a bilateral agreement and trade settlements outside the framework of the agreements are effected in convert- ible currency. Since February 1993, commercial trans- actions with the Slovak Republic, excluding transactions relating to re-exports and payments from foreign exchange accounts, must be effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two countries. Transactions are con- verted from the currency of the contract into clearing ECUs at a rate that may differ by up to 5 percent from the market cross rate against the ECU, as set by the central banks. As of December 31, 1993, the exchange rate of the Czech koruna against the clear- ing ECU was 3 percent above the market cross rate, if the balances on the account outstanding at the end of each month exceed clearing ECU 130 million, they are settled in a convertible currency by the fifteenth of the following month. Payments by juridical per- sons and entrepreneurs in connection with obliga- tions incurred before February 8, 1993 are effected through another set of clearing accounts denomi- nated in clearing koruny at the exchange rate of 1 clearing koruna per 1 Czech koruna or 1 Slovak koruna (Ski). Their exchange rate to the clearing ECU equals the exchange rate of the Czechoslovak koruna to the ECU that was in effect on February 8, 1993. These accounts are settled every month. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts. Resident natural persons may open interest-bearing foreign exchange accounts at 5At the beginning of 1993, the Czech Republic maintained a bilateral payments agreement with the Islamic State of Afghani- stan, which is inoperative, and, since February 1993, with the Slovak Republic. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 CZECH REPUBLIC any resident commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange without revealing the source of for- eign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resi- dent enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31,1990 and entre- preneurs that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts are also allowed to maintain these accounts. However, enterprises opening such accounts after December 31,1990 must obtain a permit exempting them from the 100 percent surrender requirement and allowing them to use balances on these accounts freely to finance their activities; such permits are in general not granted. Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts, except for those relating to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the CNB or the Ministry of Finance. (2) Foreign currency accounts, in which foreign exchange may be deposited freely, and from which payments may be made, in the Czech Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or entrepreneur. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as uranic ore, its concentrates, coal, poisons, mili- tary materials, firearms and ammunition, and nar- cotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by levies applies to some agricultural products, mineral fuel and oils, iron and steel and their products, and some chemical products. All imports, including those by individuals, are subject to an ad valorem customs duty ranging up to 80 percent and to a value-added tax (VAT) of 5 per- cent or 23 percent.6 Imports from the Slovak Repub- lic are exempt from customs duties. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treat- ment under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 43 "least developed"coun- tries benefit from a duty exemption, and 80 devel- oping countries are granted a 75 percent reduction from the applicable customs duties; tropical prod- ucts are granted an 85 percent reduction. Resident individuals are required to repatriate foreign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account foreign exchange (including gold, with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Kcs 5,000. Resident enterprises and entrepreneurs are normally required to repatriate, without delay, foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal mar- ket natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construc- tion materials). For the two latter groups of prod- ucts, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Czech resident individuals may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign currency accounts to make invisible pay- ments. In addition, residents are entitled to buy for- eign exchange to travel abroad, up to a maximum amount specified by the CNB (the equivalent of Kcs 7,500 a year in 1993). Transfers of alimony may be made to a country with which a reciprocal agree- ment has been concluded or which does not restrict such transfers to the Czech Republic. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. A special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers must be authorized by the CNB unless stipulated d ifferen t ly by an intergovernmental agreement. With certain exceptions related to tour- ism, exports and imports of koruna bank notes and their transfer abroad are permitted only with a for- eign exchange license issued by the CNB. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of foreign exchange assets, including foreign cur- rencies, by nonresidents. Capital 6 The incidence of customs tariffs was 5 percent in 1993 (mea- sured as a weighted average). Resident enterprises and entrepreneurs may freely obtain suppliers' credits. Financial credits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 143 may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the CNB, and foreign direct invest- ments abroad must be approved by the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. There is no limit on equity participation by nonresidents. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, foreign investors are allowed to repatri- ate freely the full value of their capital participation and capital gains in the original currency after pay- ment of taxes. tions. Nonresidents may export gold coins without a license, provided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the country. To export gold bullion, exporters must obtain a foreign exchange license. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement Gold Within 30 days of acquisition, residents are required to sell gold to commercial banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transac- February 8. The Czech koruna was introduced. May 3. The number of currencies in the basket to which the koruna is pegged was reduced to two currencies (deutsche mark and U.S. dollar) from five. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portu- gal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Den- maik maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).1 The agreement implies that the Danmarks Nationalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries par- ticipating in the EMS in unlimited amounts at spec- ified intervention rates. On December 31, 1993, these rates were as follows: 100 Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 100 100 1 100 100 100 Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 21.47470 442.96800 132.06600 10.67920 393.105 4.47770 5.59850 15.92660 328.46100 97.94300 7.92014 291.544 3.32090 4.15190 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does intervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluc- tuations in exchange rates and has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Mid- dle rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 21 foreign currencies and ECUs2 are officially fixed daily Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 144 and reflect the rates prevailing at the time of the fix- ing. On December 31,1993, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Dkr 6.7725 per US$1. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without limitation with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instruments involved. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, stipulates that payments of more than Dkr 60,000 between resi- dents and nonresidents must be reported to Dan- marks Nationalbank for statistical purposes. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited securi- ties abroad, or have entered into contracts with for- eign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1,1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Islands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1,1988. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Exchange control rules on reporting requirements for statistical purposes, on depositing foreign securities, and on holding accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange dealers. For- eign exchange dealers are commercial banks, sav- ings banks, and stockbrokerage companies or other financial institutions, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 145 banking institutions (correspondent banks). Dan- marks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Denmark notified the Fund on July 27, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Union (EU) system of export- import licenses has been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other country outside the EU that is not a state trading country. A larger num- ber of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on directives from the EU on capital movements and on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EU and those of the rest of the world. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 22 percent. There is no cus- toms duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The intervention threshold of the Dan- ish krone in the ERM of the EMS was widened tem- porarily from +2.25 percent to +15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rate, which remained unchanged. Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for the waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set by local banks on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-3.0 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. A fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or about $6.00) is charged on transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate forward exchange contracts for com- mercial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negoti- ated at free market rates. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On September 19,1980, Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Pay.nents tute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not Charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties ire levied by means of the general consumption tax, at the rate of 33 percent on luxury goods and 20 percent on all other goods. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated min- eral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds There are virtually no restrictions. Export pro- ceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and salaries paid to individuals and legal entities who, for professional purposes, are not per- manent residents of Djibouti. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or out- ward capital transfers. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Dji- bouti, but the territory as a whole does not consti- January 1. The general consumption tax on luxury goods was raised to 33 percent from 30 percent. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has dele- gated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories partici- pating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARI- COM)2 must be made in the currency of the CARI- COM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made.3 !The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; per- mission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Dominica. The accounts can only be credited with foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Haiti, Iraq, and South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, Albania, Cambodia, China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Imports of specified goods origi- nating outside the Organization of Eastern Carib- bean States (OECS)4 and CARICOM require a license. The Common External Tariff of CARICOM states is applied to all imports. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval f rom the Minis- try of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been del- egated authority to sell foreign currency to local resi- dents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel doc- uments; (3) for bona fide business travelers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (4) for overseas travel for medical treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of travel docu- ments and a medical certificate stating that the jour- ney is necessary; (5) for educational expenses, 4 The member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 DOMINICA including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents resid- ing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be obtained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval from the Ministry of Finance must also be obtained for outward remit- tances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earnings of foreign workers and profits/ dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted after settlement of all tax or other public liabilities. The exportation of Eastern Caribbean bank notes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by resi- dents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts pre- scribed by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Haiti, Iraq, and South Africa are pro- hibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, unless the exporter has a for- eign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. eign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresi- dents require approval, which is normally granted, subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 per family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any related liabilities. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quanti- ties of gold may be imported for industrial pur- poses only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes During 1993 Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a for- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso. The official exchange rate is set daily on the basis of the previous day's rates in the interbank market, in which the rates are deter- mined by supply and demand conditions. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the ^Dominican Republic in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$ 12.50 and RD$ 12.75, respectively, per US$1. A commission equivalent to 7 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Central Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 In addition, a commission of 2 percent is charged on sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The Dominican Republic formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1,1953. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. Fourteen commercial banks (including the state-owned Reserve Bank) are operating in the for- eign exchange market. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements under the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina and Venezuela have been suspended. All payments must be invoiced in U.S. dollars; otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regard- ing the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Service payments on the external public debt are executed in the same currency in which the loan is denominated. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports of coal for the use of the electric company and priority: imports for public enterprises are transacted through the Central Bank at the interbank market rate. The Monetary Board eliminated the requirement for free zones to surren- der foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank. Thus, foreign exchange receipts of these zones will be negotiated in the market. Also, importers of petroleum products, drugs, and basic foods will have to acquire the needed foreign exchange in the market and not in the Central Bank. Imports on a document-against-payments basis must be denomi- nated in U.S. dollars; for these imports, certification of the use of foreign currency is required for cus- toms clearance. All other imports are transacted through the free interbank market and are subject only to verification of appropriate documentation. Most imports are subject to an exchange commis- sion equivalent to 7 percent of their f.o.b. value. Most tariff rates range from 5 percent to 35 per- cent, and certain luxury imported goods are subject to an excise tax ranging from 5 percent to 80 percent. Payments for Invisibles All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documenta- tion requirements. Annual profit remittances can- not exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered with the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign exchange to commercial banks upon arrival may reconvert up to 30 percent of the total amount sur- rendered (maximum of up to the equivalent of US$5,000) upon departure. The exportation of domestic bank notes and coins is subject to the approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum and its derivatives, medicine, newsprint paper and equipment, and agricultural products are exempt from this commission. Certain exports are prohibited, including some food products and animal species, unprocessed 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, prod- ucts imported under specified bilateral trade agree- ments are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. With specified exceptions, exporters must sur- render to the Central Bank through the commercial banks the entire proceeds from exports within 30 days of the date of bill of lading. For purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices estab- lished by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms oper- ating in the industrial free zones and dealing in ferro-nickel exports are exempt from the surrender requirement; firms operating on the industrial free zones are not subject to export price restrictions. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario) for a value of up to 15 percent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of exports, or up to 25 percent when exports contain a high degree of domestic agricultural inputs. The certificates are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obli- gations to the Government. Law No. 69 also regu- lates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. A percentage of import duties paid on raw mate- rials and component parts used in the production of nontraditional exports is refunded: 90 percent for exports containing only imported inputs, 95 per- cent for exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent for exports produced in the industrial free trade zone.2 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment without authorization from the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles may be sold in the interbank market, except for those originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards, which must be sold in the Central Bank. Certain other receipts from invisibles (including international telephone calls, jet fuel, foreign embassies, alimonies, donations, and real estate) must be surrendered to the Central Bank.3 The importation of domestic bank notes and coins is regulated by the Central Bank. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresidents. However, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19, 1978, which created a Directorate of Foreign Investment to approve direct investment requests. Such investments must be reg- istered with the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional authorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public entities require authori- zation from the Monetary Board. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on December 13, 1976, priority in the approval of new loans is given to borrowing associated with exports, import substitution, and social projects, such as housing and education. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than a certain margin. There are also minimum ma tur i ty requirements according to the type of financing. Since January 23,1985, the Central Bank has pro- vided foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the official exchange rate; the ser- vicing of private external debt is effected through the interbank market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 2 Exporters of nontraditional products qualifying under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69 are also fu l ly exempt from import duties. 3 Since March 3, 1994, the proceeds originating from interna- tional credit card transactions have been allowed to be sold in the interbank market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 151 Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments May 15. The commission on foreign exchange sales for import payments was lowered to 7 percent from 10 percent. August 26. The new tariff regime introduced by executive decree on September 13, 1990 was approved by Congress. Law No. 14-93 maintains the basic tar iff rate set by those executive decrees at a range of 15-30 percent. Some food products, inter- mediate and final pharmaceutical products, fertiliz- ers, newsprint paper and equipment, books, magazines, and certain other imports, however, would be subject to tariffs of 3 percent and 5 per- cent. These products would be exempt from the exchange commission and the value-added tax. The temporary tariff premium of 10 percent that was adopted to phase in the new tariff system would be abolished effective September 12,1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are three exchange rates: (1) the official rate, which is used only for accounting purposes by the central bank of Ecuador; (2) the free market rate; and (3) the Central Bank exchange rate. The Central Bank's selling rate and the official rate are estab- lished weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free market in the immediately preced- ing week. The Central Bank's buying rate is set at S/.250 lower than the selling rate. The Central Bank's selling rate is applied to (1) all external pay- ments of the public sector; (2) receipts from foreign credits contracted by the public sector; (3) foreign grants received by the public sector; (4) foreign exchange payments of foreign petroleum compa- nies; and (5) the foreign currency receipts of foreign petroleum companies. The Central Bank's buying rate is applied to all other foreign exchange receipts of the public sector. All legally permitted foreign exchange transactions other than those conducted through the Central Bank may be conducted in the free market. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates in the free mar- ket were S/.2,044 and S/.2,046, respectively The Central Bank is authorized to intervene in the free market and to issue "stabilization" bonds denominated in foreign currencies. Under transi- tional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to sell foreign exchange (at the Central Bank's selling rate) to finance imports authorized under permits granted prior to August 11,1986. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are per- mitted to conduct forward and options transactions subject to a 180-day maximum term and to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Disbursements of external credits contracted by the public sector are subject to a 0.25 percent ser- vice charge levied by the Central Bank. External credits contracted by the private sector must be registered at the Central Bank within 45 days of disbursement. Private sector credit arrangements that are not registered within the 45-day period are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25 per- cent of amortization payments. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from August 31,1970. Administration of Control Public sector foreign exchange transactions, along with those related to the exploration, produc- tion, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives, are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank. Private sector foreign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports must be registered with the Central Bank to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Import licenses granted by the Central Bank are required. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Cuba and Hungary take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, or Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible curren- cies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries. List I comprises priority goods (the "Special" Group), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semi-essential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods). List II covers luxury goods. Imports of all goods not included on these two lists are prohib- ited, primarily to protect industry, the environment, and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also pro- hibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 153 Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports except books, newspapers, periodicals, printed music, medicines, and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles valued at $1,500 f.o.b. or less. In addition, the State Petroleum Corpo- ration (PETROECUADOR) may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equipment during emergencies. Import licenses are issued free of charge irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import tax has been paid, prior ministerial authorization (when needed) has been obtained, and insurance has been arranged in Ecua- dor. Certain agricultural crops, milled flour, and cooking oil are granted special protection through the licensing process. All private sector imports are subject to the 10 percent value-added tax, and all public and private sector imports are subject to a ser- vice charge of 3 percent of the c. & f. value. There is a temporary duty-free import scheme for inputs used in export production. For certain agr icu l tural imports, standard import ta r i f fs were supplemented in 1993 by a system of corrective tariffs, adopted with the announced intention of reducing the variation, over time, of the cost of such imports. The system incorporates benchmark upper and lower prices for each prod- uct. For imports priced below the lower bench- mark, the supplementary corrective ta r i ff is applied so as to raise import costs to the lower benchmark level. For imports priced above the upper bench- mark, a rebate is available on the standard import ta r i f f, so as to minimize the excess relative to the benchmark. For certain consumer goods (including automo- biles, beer, textiles and clothing, and electronic goods), o f f ic ial reference prices are published for purposes of calculating tar iffs. The reference prices establish a minimum f.o.b. value, and where importers declare a higher value, ta r i f fs are calcu- lated on the basis of the higher value. Effec t ive Janua ry 1,1994, import tar iffs have been imposed according to the common external tar iff regime of the Andean Pact. Under this regime, the maximum tariff rate on most imports from outside the region is 20 percent, with most goods subject to the rates of 5, 10, 15, or 20 percent, with the excep- tion of automobiles to which the Andean Pact coun- tries may apply a tariff of up to 37 percent (currently Ecuador applies a tar iff equivalent to this maximum rate). The Andean Pact countries may levy a zero tariff on goods if the rate of 37 percent was in effect prior to January 1,1994. Ecuador may also maintain until the end of 1996 a difference of up to 5 percent between its tariffs and those appli- cable under the common external tariff regime. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted at the central bank rate. Other payments for current invis- ibles must be settled in the free market. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrangement for the refinancing of private external debt involves different implicit exchange rates aris- ing from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates apply to the refinancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the domestic financial system or directly by the private sector and to the interest payments on loan pro- ceeds sold to the Central Bank under the refinanc- ing scheme of 1983 (Resolution No. 1202). Interest, commissions, and other financial charges on for- eign loans to petroleum companies may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percentage points more than the interest rates in the creditor country. The remittance abroad of dividends and profits is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are issued freely at no cost but are subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or defini- tive (with a validity of 90 days). A list of prohibited exports and a list of exports subject to quota ("exportable surplus") are reviewed quarterly by the relevant ministries. All goods not on these lists may be exported freely. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered to authorized financial entities no later than (1) 90 days from the date of shipment for bananas and plantains, shrimp, unprocessed coffee and cocoa, fish and other unprocessed seafood, and other perishable and primary products; and (2) 180 days from the date of shipment for all other prod- ucts. When exporters and foreign buyers agree on sight terms of payment, foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered within 15 days of the date of shipment. Those who disregard the above surrender requirements are subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. Authorized financial entities may purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of future ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 ECUADOR exports within a maximum period of 180 days before the projected date of the export settlement. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transac- tions. However, barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be reg- istered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limitations. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilateral payments agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide official documentation from the recipient country estab- lishing the applicable forms of payment. Exporters may deduct up to 15 percent from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of consular fees and commissions paid abroad. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30 percent of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum refer- ence prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished prod- ucts of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fully surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/.5 per barrel; in addition, a tax of $0.05 per barrel is paid on crude oil exported through the pipeline. Proceeds f rom Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on exchange reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible receipts of the public sector, which are transacted at the Central Bank rate. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Capital in the petroleum sector and loan disbursements to the public sector must be transacted at the Central Bank rate. Unless specifically stated, new foreign direct investments do not require prior authorization. Both domestic and foreign enterprises are subject to a 25 percent income tax rate. "~" Authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries is required when foreign investment involves a stock transfer from a resident to a nonresident or between nonresidents. Repatriation of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market if investments were made through this market. Transfers of all other gains are subject to a tax rate of 33 percent. All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the Government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the*Monetary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. A request for such authorization must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Monetary Board, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board consid- ers the effects that the loan and the related invest- ment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the Gen- eral Development Plan or receive a favorable ruling from the National Council for Development (CON- ADE). New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be authorized by and registered with the Central Bank. Gold The private sector is authorized to buy and sell gold in the international and domestic markets. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement June 28. Banks and other financial institutions were authorized to conduct forward and options operations. The maximum period for these transac- tions is 180 days. September 1. The Central Bank's selling rate would be established weekly at a level equal to the average selling rate in the free foreign exchange market during the immediately preceding week, and its buying rate would be fixed at a level S/.250 lower than the selling rate. All foreign exchange transactions other than by the public sector and for- eign petroleum corporations would be conducted through the free market. September 1. The commission payable to the Cen- tral Bank on disbursements of foreign credits con- tracted by the public sector was reduced to 0.25 percent from 2 percent. December 31. The official exchange rate (formerly fixed at S/.390 per U.S. dollar) would be estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 155 lished weekly at a level equal to the Central Bank's selling rate. reduced from 6 to 2, with a 90-day limit for primary products, and a 180-day limit for industrial products. Imports and Import Payments Capital February 1. Ecuador and Venezuela signed an agreement on the reciprocal elimination of tariffs in the framework of the Andean Pact. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Rules governing the maximum peri- ods for the repatriation of export proceeds were sim- plified. The number of product categories was April 7. The period during which foreign credits contracted by the private sector were required to be registered at the Central Bank was extended from 30 days to 45 days after disbursement of the loan. December 29. The income tax rate on foreign com- panies was lowered to 25 percent from 36 percent. All other gains would be subject to a tax rate of 33 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, the external value of which is determined in a free mar- ket. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention cur- rency. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of pay- ment (bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks), on their own accounts. These transactions, however, must be conducted through the accounts main- tained by dealers with authorized banks in Egypt. In addition, authorized nonbank dealers may bro- ker any foreign exchange operation and transaction except transfers to and from the country, on the accounts of their bank or nonbank customers. A special exchange rate of LE 1.30 per US$1 is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 per US$1 is used for the liquida- tion of balances related to past bilateral payments agreements. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the Cen- tral Bank of Egypt is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Administration of Control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, without obtaining specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade formulates external trade policy. The monopoly of the public sector over the exportation and importation of certain products has been abol- ished. Port Said City has been accorded the status of a free zone. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any convertible cur- rency, including to the debit or credit of the appro- priate free account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) in Egyptian pounds, or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the for- eign exchange regulations. Settlements with Sudan, the only country with which Egypt maintains an operative bilateral payments agreement, are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Payments not covered by the agreement may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting canal dues accounts, advance payment canal dues accounts, or free accounts in foreign cur- rency. Canal dues accounts must be opened in for- eign currency, and balances may be transferred abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements, the indem- nity agreements concluded with certain countries and canal dues accounts, there are three types of accounts: free accounts, "D" accounts, and noncon- vertible capital accounts. gree accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Govern- ment, public authorities, and public sector entities. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bank notes, for- eign currency equivalents from funds transferred from previously existing free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign bank notes to the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. D accounts may be opened in the name of any res- ident of a country (currently only Sudan) with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agreement. They are usually credited with transfers under the respective payments agreements. Balances are used to make local payments allowed under the bilateral agreements, including for imports from Egypt. Cur- rently, outstanding balances on these accounts are minimal. Nonconvertible capital accounts may be credited with capital payments not remittable under the for- eign exchange regulations to foreigners living out- 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 157 side Egypt. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from account holders. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by account holders. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered, up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to free accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold foreign exchange retention accounts and capital and working accounts. Foreign exchange retention accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from exports of certain goods and from invisible receipts. Public sector companies may transfer these funds to other public sector companies within the same sector or sell them to the authorized banks at the free market rate. Private sector exporters may debit these accounts for visi- ble and invisible payments related to their eco- nomic activity or sell the exchange in the free market but may not transfer these funds to free accounts. Holders of export retention accounts in the private sector are entitled to use up to 25 per- cent of the proceeds of their exports without sub- mitting documents to finance travel expenses for the exporter or his employees, to make other invisi- ble payments related to the account holder's activ- ity, and to settle repatriation requirements. Unused balances in retention accounts owned by the public sector (earned from invisible transactions), unless exempt, must be sold periodically to the banking system. If the balances in the retention accounts owned by the public sector entities originate with proceeds with invisible transactions, unused bal- ances must be surrendered at the end of June and December. Capital and working accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 of July 1989. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free bank market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade for- mulates long-term export and import policies and prepares indicative annual export and import plans. Both public and private entities are allowed to trade with countries with which Egypt maintains a bilateral payment agreement. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the free market rate, with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agreements, which are effected at a more appreciated rate. Import payments in foreign exchange by the pri- vate sector are effected through the commercial banks or through importers' own foreign exchange resources. All products may be freely imported, with the exception of those that are prohibited. Certain goods (e.g., imports financed with bilateral and mul- tilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are exempt from the negative list, and items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. For customs purposes, products are classified into 12 groups, on which tariff rates range from 5 percent to 80 percent (with several exceptions). The weighted average rate was 18.5 percent in 1993. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for all invisible payments by the Govern- ment and the public authorities, and the public sec- tor, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations. Commercial banks and other agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange may sell without restriction foreign currencies for payments for invisibles to individuals, private and public sec- tor units and companies, and companies estab- lished under the domestic investment regime, in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Law. Only Egyptian nationals, foreigners who have lived in the country continuously for five years, and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for ten years may, under certain conditions, purchase airline tick- ets (one-way or round-trip, originating in Egypt) in Egyptian pounds. All others must purchase tickets with convertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds converted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Travelers may not take out more than LE 100 in domestic bank notes but are permitted to take out ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 EGYPT foreign bank notes and other instruments of pay- ment in foreign currency without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from a limited number of products required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be effected without license. Foreign trade committees may establish export plans for certain products. Exports of cotton, rice, and petroleum are no longer a public sector monop- oly. Proceeds from these exports must be repatri- ated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and, in any case, within not more than five years of the date of shipment. Proceeds from all other exports must be repatriated within two years of the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fully retained in foreign exchange retention accounts. Proceeds from exports by both the private and public sector to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing Egyptians and foreigners who are carrying gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that they exchanged for- eign exchange that is equivalent to the excess value of the purchase in the free markets; the correspond- ing limit on excess value in respect of purchases left behind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (provided that they are exported within three months of the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided of the visit to Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in free accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system. However, hotels are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in their retention accounts. Hotels operating under Law No. 230 are allowed to retain all of their for- eign exchange earnings in their working accounts. With the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, hotels other than those operating under Law No. 230 may also retain an additional 15 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to meet their debt-service obligations. Travel agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 230; Misr Travel is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be approved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Cer- tain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 100 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts of foreign exchange. Capital Transfers of funds by foreign nationals leaving the country permanently, by emigrants, and by accrued alimony beneficiaries living abroad (within the limits prescribed by the pertinent legal provisions) are not restricted. Imports and exports of securities and transfers related to their purchases or sales must be effected through authorized banks. Securities dealers registered at the stock markets of Cairo and Alexan- dria are authorized to act as intermediaries in prop- erty transfer operations related to these securities both inside and outside Egypt. With the approval of the responsible authorities and in conformity with the prevailing laws and regulations, foreign exchange may be released in order to transfer the amounts requested by government units, public agencies, and public sector companies to pay for investments abroad and to pay their share of capital in foreign exchange projects inside the country. The total cash assets from estates accruing to for- eigners living abroad may be deposited in capital nontransferable accounts opened with authorized banks. The net shares of the heirs of foreigners liv- ing abroad may be deposited in nontransferable capital accounts. Authorized banks may pay from such nontransferable capital accounts legal expenses accruing up to a maximum of LE 10,000 each calendar year against the holder of accounts opened in the names of natural or juridical persons. In addition to the settlement of expenses and fees for local services and government claims, up to LE 20,000 each calendar year may be paid from these accounts to settle expenses related to the activities or stay of employees of the juridical per- son in Egypt. Payments for real estate and land that foreigners are allowed to own must be made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from sales of property owned in Egypt by foreigners or their heirs must be depos- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 159 ited in a special capital account in the name of the foreign seller at an authorized bank. The authorized bank may transfer funds abroad from the account, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of foreign exchange units previously transferred and surrendered in return for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property was sold; afterwards, up to a maximum of LE 50,000 a year may be transferred. The ratio of foreign currency liabilities to foreign currency assets of authorized commercial banks is subject to a maximum limit of 105 percent, and the open foreign exchange position for a single cur- rency and for all currencies combined is subject to limits of 10 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of their capital. NonbankHforeigrngxchange dealers may maintain foreign exchange working balances up to $225,000 per LE 1 million of capital. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' accounts) in precious metals. The importation of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is regulated. The exportation of gold and silver fab- rics may be permitted, provided that the sales pro- ceeds are repatriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out valuables for their personal use within a limit of LE 2,000 a person, with proof that valuables have been shipped to or brought in by the traveler. Departing Egyptian nationals and foreign residents are permitted to take out their per- sonal jewelry valued at up to LE 20,000, with a guar- antee acceptable to the customs authorities and provided that they repatriate it within five years. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control July 1. The system of foreign exchange budgeting for central and local governments was abolished. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The maximum tariff rate was reduced from 100 percent to 80 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds October 26. The period during which proceeds from exports, other than those from books, newspa- pers, and other publications had to be repatriated was extended from one year to two years. Capital April 11. The ceiling on foreign exchange working balances of authorized nonbank foreign exchange dealers was raised from $150,000 to $200,000 per LE 1 million of capital. June 20. The ceiling on foreign exchange working balances of authorized nonbank foreign exchange dealers was raised from $200,000 to $225,000 per LE 1 million of capital. December 1. The regulation that the difference between a bank's foreign currency denominated assets and foreign currency denominated liabilities be limited to 15 percent of the bank's capital was replaced by a new regulation stipulating that each bank's currency exposure in any single foreign cur- rency may not be more than 10 percent of capital and that exposure in all currencies combined may be no more than 20 percent of capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon, the external value of which is determined by commercial banks and exchange houses at rates determined by supply and demand conditions. The Central Reserve Bank establishes daily exchange rates, which are applied to its transactions with the public sector, foreign exchange surrendered by cof- fee exporters to the Central Reserve Bank, and the calculation of tax obligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by com- mercial banks and exchange houses for the previ- ous working day. In addition, the Central Reserve Bank may purchase or sell foreign exchange to com- mercial banks and exchange houses at the rate pre- vailing in the market at the time of the transaction. On December 31, 1993, the Central Reserve Bank's buying and selling exchange rates were C 8.67 and C 8.75, respectively, per US$1; the aver- age buying and selling exchange rates of commer- cial banks were C 8.67 and C 8.75, respectively, per US$1; and the average buying and selling rates of exchange houses were C 8.67 and C 8.74, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official, commercial banking, or exchange house sector. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Reserve Bank in accordance with its Organic Law. All private sector imports and pay- ments for invisibles are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports of a number of products require permits issued by the Centro de Tramites de Exportaciones (CENTREX). The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with autho- rized banks. Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make pay- ments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are also ijot, restricted. The commercial banks are required to suBlmfperiodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank on the use of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, pro- pane and butane gas, cloth and jute sacks, sugar, and molasses. Authorization for private sector import payments is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Payments for public sector imports and set- tlement of official lines of credit are made by the commercial banks and the Central Reserve Bank after deposits have been made in local currency to cover the full value of credit. Import tariffs range from 5 percent to 20 percent although some products, such as automobiles, alco- holic drinks, textiles, and luxury items, are subject to an import tariff of 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (e.g., medical treatment and study and travel abroad) are free of restrictions, and the authority to grant for- eign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for diesel fuel and lique- fied petroleum gas. CENTREX issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. All exports, irrespective of value, must be registered. Until May 1994, 50 percent of proceeds from cof- fee exports had to be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within 40 days of the issuance of the 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 161 export registration certificate.1 Proceeds from exports of all other goods must be surrendered to the commercial banks. Proceeds from exports amounting to less than $25,000 may be surrendered to exchange houses. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive a drawback of taxes paid in cash on imported raw materials equiv- alent to 6 percent of the f .o.b. value of their exports. Since December 1992, proceeds from exports of coffee have been subject to an income tax, which replaces the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to an authorized commercial bank or exchange house. Capital Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be reg- istered with the Ministry of Economy but are not restricted. Outward remittance of interest and amortization on external loans may be made with- out restriction. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses ^his requirement was eliminated in May 1994. owned by foreign residents and those having for- eign resident shareholders. This decree defines for- eign residents as persons residing in El Salvador who are not citizens of one of the five member countries of the Central American Common Market (CAMC). Gold Gold coins in the denomination of C 2,500 have been issued as legal tender. Residents and nonresi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins for numis- matic purposes. Gold coins in denominations of C 8.6725, C 50, C 100, and C 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. These coins are not available for sale and exist only for numismatic purposes in the Central Reserve Bank collection. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are not restricted. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 1. The Central Reserve Bank ceased to sell foreign exchange for payment of oil imports. Exports and Export Proceeds August 1. The rate of surrender requirement on proceeds from coffee exports was lowered to 50 per- cent from 100 percent. The 50 percent requirement was eliminated in May 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of rein- surance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equatorial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its over- seas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) of the lrThe CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are for- eign accounts in francs. As the BEAC suspended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating out- side the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of uninterrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds EQUATORIAL GUINEA 163 Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declara- tion but are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regula- tions: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of des- tination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a for- eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchan- dise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equa- torial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either 2 Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of for- eign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 EQUATORIAL GUINEA its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Equatorial Guinea (and other member countries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized finan- cial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Follow- ing this decision, the BEAC member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the mem- ber countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BEAC countries, the BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits pertaining to the amount of bank notes that can be taken out by travelers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BCEAO countries, and bank notes for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the BEAC member countries revised upward the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 100,000 a day with a maxi- mum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 mil- lion a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Minis- try of Finance, would be limited to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourism and business travel to non-BEAC countries; (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of payment, the new regulations introduced for all BEAC countries a uni- form requirement of declaration at customs and of surrendering within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros and other countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds d rawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of April 30,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Estonia is the Kroon. Since the introduction of a currency board system, the con- vertibility of the kroon has been guaranteed by the Bank of Estonia (BOE); the BOE exchanges kroon bank notes and reserve deposits of commercial banks with the BOE into deutsche mark and vice versa at the exchange rate of EEK 8 per DM1. The kroon is fully convertible for all current interna- tional transactions and for virtually all international capital transactions. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely handled by the commercial banks, and commercial banks are free to quote their own exchange rates. Administration of Control The authority to issue and enforce foreign exchange regulations is based on the Central Bank Law. Import and export controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. can be effected through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the BOE with the respec- tive central banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may be used freely by their holders, to purchase either goods or services in the country concerned. In operating these accounts, the Bank of Estonia acts as an intermediary only and does not convert any balances to krooni. Kroon balances held by other former U.S.S.R. central banks on their correspondent accounts are fully convertible with- out delay. These agreements also allow for separate decentralized payments arrangements between commercial banks in the respective states and do not provide for swing credits or overdraft facilities. In addition, Estonian exporters and importers may effect payments without undue delays. Settlements with countries with which Estonia maintains bilat- eral payments agreements are effected in accor- dance with the terms of the agreements.1 *At the end of 1993, Estonia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Commercial banks in Estonia are permitted and encouraged to open their own correspondent accounts with counterpart commercial banks in the former U.S.S.R. to effect payments associated with trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. Estonia maintains outstanding balances on inop- erative correspondent accounts with the states of the former U.S.S.R. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Enterprises must obtain a license to open and operate foreign exchange accounts with foreign banks abroad; licenses, whose sole purpose is to enforce the monthly reporting requirements, are granted freely. Enterprises need not obtain licenses to open and operate foreign currency accounts in domestic banks. Individuals are prohibited from opening foreign currency accounts in domestic banks. Imports and Exports Imports are not subject to licensing requirements or quantitative restrictions. Import tariffs of 16 per- cent are levied on fur and fur goods and of 10 per- cent on automobiles, bicycles, launches, and yachts. In addition to these tariffs, imports are subject to a 0.5 percent ad valorem fee to cover the cost of administrative processing. Imports are subject to an 18 percent value-added tax, which is also levied on domestically produced goods. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco products are subject to excise taxes lev- ied, at point of entry by the customs authority, at the following rates: wine, 20 percent; vodka, 100 percent; and raw tobacco and cigarettes, 40 percent. Exports of gravel, clay, and quartz sand are pro- hibited, and exports of oil from oil shale are subject to quotas. The exportation of metals is subject to state monopoly; private exports of metal are subject to licenses. In addition, all exports are subject to an ad valorem fee of 0.5 percent to cover the cost of administrative processing. Enterprises are not required to repatriate export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no regulations governing payments for or proceeds from invisibles. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 ESTONIA The importation and exportation of domestic bank notes are not restricted: monthly report on the turnover of their foreign accounts. Capital Imports and Exports Inward and outward capital transfers are not controlled or restricted. Gold International and domestic trade in gold is sub- ject to the licensing requirement administered by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement December 1. The requirement that the spread between the buying and the selling rates of foreign exchange by banks, including commissions, not exceed 7 percent was eliminated. December 1. The restrictions on transactions in nonconvertible foreign currency notes were removed. Administration of Control January 26. The Foreign Currency Law was amended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts December 1. Resident natural persons were required to obtain a license from the BOE to open and operate a foreign currency account with a for- eign bank abroad. They must submit to the BOE a January 1. A quota was applied on the export of oil from shale. February 19. The export duty on metals was abol- ished, but all exports of metal and scrap metal were brought under a state monopoly; private exports of metal were prohibited except under license from the state monopoly. April 13. A trade agreement providing for MFN treatment was signed with China. August 19. A 70 percent duty was imposed on imports of wheat and rye in the form of grain and flour from the Russian Federation. September 13. A Baltic Free Trade Agreement was signed with Latvia and Lithuania. Agricultural products were excluded. September 24. A trade agreement providing for MFN treatment was signed with the Czech Republic. October 15. A trade agreement providing for MFN treatment was signed with India. November 30. The 70 percent duty on imports of wheat and rye in the form of grain and flour from the Russian Federation was eliminated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 21. The regulations governing the exportation and importation of foreign currency notes (including traveler's checks) were revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr. Since the introduction of the fortnightly auction system in early May 1993, there have been two exchange rates: the official rate and the auction rate (marginal) prevailing at the most recent auction. The official exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency and is applied to imports of petroleum products, fertilizers, pharma- ceutical goods, Ethiopia's contributions to interna- tional organizations, and external debt-service payments. On December 31, 1993, the official exchange rate was Br 5.0 per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are set daily by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) on the basis of both the auction rate and the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency against the U.S. dollar in London. The auction rate is applied to all current and capital transactions during the period between auctions; with the exception of a limited number of payments to which the official rate is applied. In practice, the pre- vailing auction rate is also applied to all foreign exchange inflows and to foreign exchange provided by the National Bank outside the auction market for limited expenses, including: tuition fees, medical treatment abroad, business travel, and personal remit- tances by expatriate workers. All licensed importers are allowed to submit bids to the auction if foreign exchange is to be used to import goods that are not included on a published negative list. Successful bid- ders purchase foreign exchange at their bid prices. On December 31, 1993, the prevailing auction rate was Br5.86 per US$1. Authorized dealers must charge a prescribed commission of 0.50 percent on buying and 1.50 percent on selling, the proceeds of which accrue to the National Bank. Dealers may levy service charges of up to 0.25 percent on buying and 0.75 per- cent on selling for their own accounts. For currencies other than the U.S. dollar, dealers may include the charges applied by correspondents abroad. In prac- tice, the authorized charges are usually levied. The commission and service charges are also applied by the National Bank in its dealings with the Govern- ment and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers must have the approval of the National Bank to under- take forward exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized dealer under the control of the National Bank. The Exchange Controller of the National Bank issues exchange licenses for all exports and payments abroad and issues permits for all shipments. The Minister of Trade formulates external trade policy. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a freely convertible foreign currency or in any other accept- able foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks upon approval of the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad, and transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplo- matic community must use transferable or nontrans- ferable birr accounts for payment of local expenses. Joint ventures are permitted to open foreign cur- rency accounts or transferable or nontransferable birr accounts to purchase raw materials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evi- dence of the entry of the goods purchased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department of the National Bank. In general, these accounts may be replenished only after the docu- ments have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents maintained with authorized banks are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Resident 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 ETHIOPIA Ethiopian nationals are not allowed to maintain a bank account abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which can be obtained when a valid importer 's license is presented. Applications for exchange licenses must be accompanied by infor- mation on costs and payment terms and by evi- dence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, partic- u lar ly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made available for imports included on a negative list. Most goods on this negative list may, however, be imported under the franco valuta arrangement w i thout a license (i.e., imports are financed with foreign exchange f rom external sources). Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authorization from the Min- ister of Transport and Communications, and au thor iza t ion is readily granted without restric- tion if the imports are financed with foreign exchange balances held abroad. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropr ia te to the coun try of origin or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally accept- able, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash-against-documents basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an accep- tance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers'credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings but only for the first three years of their contract, if employed by the pri- vate sector; they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings dur- ing the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad for business purposes are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to about Br 750 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year; for tourism purposes, per- sons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 500 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 1,200 to study abroad. With the approval of the Ministry of Education, Ethiopian nationals with dependents pursuing higher studies at accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health, resi- dents may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to Br 30,000 for medical treatment and travel abroad. A f ter providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take w i th them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Control- ler and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a per- mit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain fu ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corpora- tion. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Con- troller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate cur- rency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of raw hides and skins are regu- lated or prohibited until the needs of local factories are met. The exportation of coffee is subject to a cof- fee export duty at the rate of Br 15 per quintal, a cof- fee export excise at the rate of Br 5 per quintal, and a coffee surtax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 169 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in B r50 in Ethiopian currency and must declare any foreign exchange in their possession entering Ethiopia. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have authorization to re-export foreign exchange. Recon- version of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, prevent an unwarranted accumu- lation of external debt, and keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Authorization of the Exchange Controller is required for repatriation of capital, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes the evi- dence of inflows that is required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate docu- mentation, foreign businessmen with nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an autho- rized bank. This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 (of July 5, 1989) and invest- ments made under Proclamation No. 15/1992 (of May 25, 1992). Transfers by emigrants who have operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a major- ity share in a joint venture, except in certain sectors: precious metals, public utilities, telecommunica- tions, banking and insurance, transport, and trade in selected products deemed essential to the econ- omy. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Investment Office; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before reg- istration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemp- tion from customs duties and other specified import levies. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) may be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments in respect of debt contracted and fees or royalties in respect of tech- nology transfer agreements. Borrowing -abroad-~requires approval from the Exchange Control Department and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place theirTunds abroad exception fixed-term deposit but may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the permission of the National Bank. In addition, they need prior approval from the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with for- eign correspondents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corporation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 1. A foreign exchange auction system (using the "Dutch" bidding method) was introduced. Auc- tions would be organized by the National Bank, and sessions would be held fortnightly. The National Bank would provide foreign exchange for each ses- sion. June 12. The National Bank began to preannounce the amount of foreign exchange to be supplied to each auction session. Imports and Import Payments September 5. The negative list for imports that may be financed with foreign exchange bought at auctions was shortened. November 17. The prohibition on trade with South Africa was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket consisting of the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The weights in the formula are reviewed annually; the most recent revision was made in April 1993. The exchange rate of the Fiji dol- lar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other cur- rencies included in the basket. On December 31,1993, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. doUar was F$1.5408 per US$1. The Reserve Bank provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized dealers for trade transactions for forward periods of up to six months for exports and nine months for imports. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 4,1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, and butter. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Pri- mary Industries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by various government departments and monitored by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji dollars through an external account or in any foreign currency.1 Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. A nonresident2 may open and operate an external account in Fiji dollars or a foreign currency account with an authorized dealer without specific approval from the Reserve Bank. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, with pay- ments from other external accounts, with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji bank notes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of foreign cur- rency in the country during a temporary visit. Exter- nal accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific author- ity has been given. External accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and pur- chases of foreign exchange. Exporters may retain up to 10 percent of proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds for import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of butter and petroleum products in any form require a specific license. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national coop- erative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. The importation of a few commodities from all sources is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may approve advance payments for imports up to $10,000 without specific approval from the Reserve Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted under a del- egated authority to authorized dealers up to specific 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived, or intends to continue living, in Fiji for at least three years. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 171 limits, as follows: (1) family maintenance expenses, F$4,000 a year; (2) subscription payments for clubs, societies, trade organizations, etc., F$l,000 an appli- cation; (3) travel allowances, F$4,000 an applicant a trip; (4) payments of royalties, commissions, patents, brokerage, and copyrights, F$10,000 an application; and (5) gift remittances, F$500 a donor a year. The use of credit cards for travel-related expenses is not restricted, except for a limit on the use of credit cards for shopping of F$l,000 a trip; in addition, F$400 a month may be withdrawn in cash. Emigrants are allowed to transfer, after one year abroad, the full amount of the current year 's dividends/prof its earned on assets left in Fiji. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is not required to make the following payments if they are accompanied by supporting documentary proof: (1) medical treatment and education expenses direct to the institution; (2) wage payments by shipping com- panies to foreign crew members, up to F$20,000; (3) advertising fees, up to F$10,000; and (4) payments of charges for movie film rental and news services. Amounts exceeding the established limits may be granted with the approval of the Reserve Bank upon presentation of documents certifying that the pay- ments are for bona fide purposes. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain per- mission from the Reserve Bank to transfer divi- dends abroad. Under the present policy, remittance of the current year 's profits and two years'retained earnings that have not previously been remitted is allowed. The remittance abroad of rent accruing on properties owned by emigrants is permitted as part of transfers of F$25,000 an emigrant is allowed to make every six months (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, cer- tain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of export-licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for com- mercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific per- mission. At least 90 percent of the value of 1992 export proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; up to 10 percent of 1992 export proceeds may be kept in foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or a foreign bank abroad with approval from the Reserve Bank; the rate of retention from each export receipt is not subject to control. Balances may be used only for import payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely Fijian and foreign currency bank notes, but must declare them to customs/immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Residents are required to sell their for- eign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered semiannually unless approval for reinvestment abroad has been granted by the Reserve Bank. Capital Repatriation of capital funds sourced from or w i thdrawal of foreign investment in Fiji requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank, which is readily granted upon sighting of evidence that investment funds are originally sourced from off- shore. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Special tax incentives and concessions are granted for investments that qual- ify under Fiji's Tax Free Factory/Zone status, and an investment allowance similar to that for hotels is provided for large-outlay investment projects that support the tourist industry. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in full proceeds from the sale of assets and capital gains on investments up to F$l million a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the pro- ceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresi- dent. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$125,000 for a family and F$75,000 for a single person; thereafter, the emigrant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$25,000 every six months com- mencing six months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred; emigrants intending to leave Fiji within 12 months are allowed to transfer up to F$100,000 a family and up to F$50,000 a single person. Nonresidents departing Fiji permanently may remit up to F$250,000 on departure and thereafter up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 F$50,000 every six months. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have been tem- porarily suspended. The purchase of personal prop- erty abroad is not permitted. Authorized banks conducting transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the con- version of foreign currency into Fiji dollars (includ- ing credit to an external account) and (2) the crediting of an external account with Fiji dollars emanating from another external account (includ- ing Fiji dollar accounts of overseas banks) must report such transactions to the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may lend up to F$50,000 to a newly established company or a branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents for a period of three months, af ter which the loan must be reduced to F$30,000; they may lend up to F$30,000 to individual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans before they leave Fiji. Any amounts in excess of these limits require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Residents must obtain prior permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. Repatriation of capital funds sourced from or withdrawal of portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval from the Reserve Bank which is readily granted upon sighting of evi- dence that investment funds are originally sourced from offshore. The proceeds from the sale or real- ization of such investment must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow abroad. FIJI Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins, but not gold bullion, in Fiji. The exporta- tion of gold coins, except numismatic coins and col- lectors'pieces, requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bul- lion are exempt from fiscal du ty but are subject to 10 percent value-added tax (VAT). Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal du ty but subject to 10 per- cent VAT and is not under licensing control. Sam- ples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export du ty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export du ty of 3 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Restrictions on prepayments of import bills were lifted, provided the prepayments are for goods that have arrived in Fiji. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. The 10 percent retention rate on each export receipt was replaced by the 5 percent of total export earnings in 1992 that exporters may retain in foreign currency. December 31. The 5 percent retention rate was increased to 10 percent of total export earnings in 1992. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka, the external value of which is determined on the basis of underlying supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. The Finnish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions. On December 31,1993, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Fmk 5.7845 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. For- ward premiums and discounts quoted by autho- rized banks reflect interest rate differentials in the countries of the currencies concerned. The Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 25,1979. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and export licensing are administered mainly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, which is headed by a board composed of government officials, includ- ing a representative of the Suomen Pankki. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Finland notified the Fund on July 6,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency or through convertible accounts. Nonresident Accounts Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral area,1 provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in this area. How- ever, some agricultural products and fish may be imported from the multilateral area under a global or bilateral quota system, which provides for the issuing of import licenses up to the quota for speci- fied commodity groups. All imports of goods clas- sified in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area2 require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency responsible for the importation of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products made of these grains for human consumption, but individ- ual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly on imports of alcoholic beverages. Authorized banks freely grant foreign exchange for all licensed imports on presentation of a notifi- cation form and the import license (when required for imports from countries with nonconvertible currencies). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds transactions are not Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Export licenses are required only for exports of metal ships to be scrapped and goods related to international export control regimes. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are not subject to controls. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign currency account in Finland. The importa- Nonresident accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including 1 Currently, all countries except the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 2 Currently, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 FINLAND tion of domestic and foreign currency and coins is unrestricted. Capital Capital transactions, except the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in Finland, are allowed without restriction. Permits are still required if the property is to be used for a vacation dwelling. Restrictions on foreign ownership in Finnish companies have been lifted, but a monitoring system concerning the acquisition of the largest companies by foreigners has been put in place. This system gives the Gov- ernment the right to intervene if an important national interest might be jeopardized. The international banking activities of autho- rized Finnish banks are free from regulation and subject only to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Changes During 1993 Capital January 1. Nonresidents were allowed to purchase Finnish securities and own Finnish corporations without restriction. The Act on the Monitoring of Foreigners' Corporate Acquisitions in Finland involves a scheme under which the public authori- ties can exercise surveillance regarding the transfer into foreign ownership of shareholdings in some large Finnish companies. The system is to apply until the end of 1995. The restriction on acquisition of real estate by foreigners was liberalized; permits would be required only if the property is to be used for a vacation dwelling. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ire- land, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mecha- nism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas . 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Francs Upper limit Lower limit 18.88000 102.10000 389.48000 9.38950 345.6500 3.93700 4.92250 14.00500 75.72000 288.81000 6.96400 256.35000 2.91990 3.65050 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Indicative rates for 21 currencies are pub- lished daily by the Central Bank on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1993, the rate was F 5.8955 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuational band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and zaires. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the over- seas territories of French Polynesia, New Cale- donia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the two CFA francs, which are the currencies of two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account.3 These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F 0.055 and CFAF 1 per F 0.02, respectively. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents including non- enterprise individuals may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control All exchange control regulations have been phased out on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of December 29,1989. The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of the Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been dele- gated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE). Technical visas required for certain imports 3 Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute fmanciere Africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation fmanciere Afr ique centrale, issued by the BE AC). 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 FRANCE and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and technical assistance contracts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.4 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident foreign accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident enterprises engaged in international trade are authorized to hold foreign currency accounts in France or abroad. Such enterprises are also authorized to hold accounts in francs abroad. All residents, including individuals and enterprises not engaged in international trade, are permitted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, to hold foreign currency-denominated accounts in France or abroad, and to hold French franc-denominated accounts abroad. Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts have been unrestricted. Nonresident accounts may be operated freely. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods that originate in other countries and that are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. 4 Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Cale- donia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Futuna Islands). For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syr- ian Arab Republic, United States, and Western Samoa; (2) some specified countries;5 and (3) China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongo- lia. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is rela- tively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from different coun- tries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) coun- tries. For some commodities, global quotas are allo- cated annually (for petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all coun- tries (other than those that have bilaterally negoti- ated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantita- tive restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols but do require a customs document, which con- stitutes the customs declaration. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appropriate min- istry is required on an import declaration. Imports of 5 The Islamic State of Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhu- tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philip- pines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 177 the products of the European Coal and Steel Com- munity (ECSC) require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agree- ments or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through designated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EU-wide restrictions and national restrictions. The former include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agricultural and industrial products negotiated at the EU level. EU-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authoriza- tion. National restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EU are enforced through temporary import restrictions authorized by the EU Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EU (e.g., industry-to-industry understandings that do not directly involve member governments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or standards and certification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under surveillance at either the EU or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a foreign account in francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market, or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All residents and inter- national trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit balance. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compensation of debts or claims, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be trans- ferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Administra- tion does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authorization, permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial con- tract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported for statistical purposes but are not restricted as to amount. Regis- tered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without limitation. Remittances abroad for family support abroad and donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of for- eign or domestic bank notes resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out, but amounts exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to cus- toms upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if their total value does not exceed F 10,000 (F 100,000 for art objects or collectors' items), they may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exporters are allowed to cover forward for an unlimited period and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from transactions in invisibles may be retained. With minor exceptions for certain types of transaction, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any for- eign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or larger, how- ever, must be declared to customs upon arrival. At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, bank notes issued by those countries may not be exchanged. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 Capital FRANCE Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely. Residents' capital assets abroad are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresi- dent-owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a for- eign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier may also be sold in France, and the sale proceeds may be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but may not be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by resi- dents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French reg- istered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regula- tions concerning inward and outward direct invest- ment, residents may purchase abroad, through registered banks abroad, French and foreign securi- ties that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad but may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them into France through a registered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct investments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, as amended by Decree No. 92-134 of February 1992, which applies to financial relations with all countries except Monaco and those belonging to the Operations Account Area. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one third of the capital is considered direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20 percent of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commer- cial contracts. EU or non-EU investments in new firms are not subject to a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy. The following foreign investments, however, do not require increases in capital of subsidiaries in which foreign ownership or voting rights exceed 66.66 percent: loans, trans- actions involving less than F10 million in craft trades; retail trade; hotels; restaurants; various com- mercial services; quarries and gravel pits; and acquisitions of agricultural lands except vineyards and wine-making properties. Juridical and natural persons may freely invest in any project that is at least 50 percent owned by juridical and natural per- sons residing in the EU, but the completion of the project must be reported to the Ministry of Econ- omy. Investments of EU groups having permanent recognition of EU status are not subject to any prior declaration and are required only to report to the Ministry of Economy within 20 days of completion. The Minister of Economy may issue a finding within one month to prohibit the EU investment if public health, order, security, or national security is considered to be in danger. Non-EU investments of less than F 50 million, if the turnover of the acquired firm is less than F 500 million, are not restricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy before completion. The Minister of Econ- omy may issue a finding within 30 days, at the maximum, to prohibit the investment if public health, order, security, or national security is consid- ered to be in danger. The Minister of Economy is allowed a one-month period, at the maximum, during which a non-EU investment can be suspended if the investment involves more than F 50 million or if the turnover of the acquired firm is more than F 500 million. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct investments by residents are not restricted, but if they exceed F 5 million they must be reported to the Bank of France within 20 days. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 179 application, provided that the corresponding funds, if they exceed F 5 million, are reported to the Bank of France. Foreign issues on the French capital market, except issues originating in EU countries, are sub- ject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign currencies by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, is unrestricted. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms engaged primarily in real estate business. Lending in French francs to nonresidents is not restricted. Registered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the reg- ulations applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to spe- cific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to a value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to a capital gains tax. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The intervention threshold of the French franc in the ERM of the EMS was widened from ±2.25 percent to +15 percent around the bilat- eral exchange rate. Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Com- missions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Min- istry of Finance, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Participations, who has partly delegated approval authority for current payments to the lrThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equa- torial Guinea. authorized banks and that with respect to the exter- nal position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries—that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC bank notes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents' authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities with the exception of refined vegetable oil, which requires prior approval. All imports whose value exceeds CFAF 500,000 from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to autho- rization. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, min- eral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to sim- plify administrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 181 licensing, but, with a few exceptions2 that are estab- lished by ministerial order, import authorizations are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil, except when they originate from UDEAC member countries, are suspended. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income, in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties, accru- ing to nonresidents are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payments other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 100,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; and (4) the use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance is limited to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession 2 Currently totaling about thirty items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vegeta- ble oil. upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a for- eign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceil- ings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their pur- chase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of non- resident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a for- eign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 Capital GABON Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be depos- ited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls apply to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its; the full or partial liquidation of investments must also be declared to the ministry, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a sharehold- ing that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the min- istry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declara- tion, the ministry may request the postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the ministry within 20 days of the oper- 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. ation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Govern- ment; and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. However, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment, must be declared to the Directorate of Finan- cial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 mil- lion or less. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participa- tions. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstand- ing does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. However, making loans that are free of autho- rization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total out- standing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 183 domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain con- ditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified income. In addition to fiscal privileges, the code provides for four categories of preferential treat- ment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given pri- ority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the Societe gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Gabon (and other member countries of the BEAC) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BEAC) in circulation outside the territories of the member countries of the BEAC. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Fol- lowing this decision, the BEAC member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the mem- ber countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BEAC countries, the BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BCEAO countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations provided that residents could obtain an unlimited allocation in French francs. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the BEAC member countries revised upward the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 100,000 a day with a maximum of CFAF 2 million a trip; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 250,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million a trip; (3) allowances in excess of these lim- its would be subject to the authorization of the Min- istry of Finance or, by delegation, the BEAC; (4) the use of credit cards, which have to be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be limited to the ceil- ings indicated above for tourism and business travel to non-BEAC countries; (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of pay- ment, the new regulations introduced for all BEAC countries a uniform requirement of declaration at customs and of surrendering within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addi- tion, travelers were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above this ceiling would require documentation demon- strating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), or with cus- tomers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange market review session on the last work- ing day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. During this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate for customs valu- ation purposes for the following week. On December 31, 1993, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 9.41 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Gambia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as from January 21,1993. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act was repealed in November 1992, and no exchange controls are in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received from nonresident sources in dalasis or in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for pur- chases of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or secu- rity reasons. All other imports are freely permitted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can take place without individual licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian bank notes. Capital Inward transfers for purposes of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the CBG for statistical purposes. Prior approval from the CBG is not required for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Commercial banks may provide overdraft facili- ties to members of diplomatic and international missions in The Gambia. Since the repeal of the Exchange Control Act in November 1992, loans and advances by commercial banks to nonresidents no longer require authorization from the CBG. Foreign 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 185 exchange working balances held by the commercial banks and exchange bureaus are subject to limits set by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank market or offered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a weekly basis and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. In addition, The Gambia Telecommunication Company (GamTel), which is a parastatal organization, is temporarily permitted to maintain limited working balances in foreign exchange. The limits must be observed on a monthly basis, and the amounts held must be reported within the same period to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 21. The Gambia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Georgia is the Georgian Coupon,1 the external value of which is determined in fixing sessions that are held weekly in the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange, in which the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) and 15 commercial banks participate. The official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble are determined in these sessions. The official exchange rates for other currencies that are traded are also determined in these sessions; otherwise, the official rates are determined for convertible currencies on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international mar- ket. For the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R., rates are determined on the basis of the official cross rates for the Russian ruble as pub- lished by the Central Bank of Russia. The official exchange rates are used for foreign exchange bud- get and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the Government and enterprises and other legal entities. At the end of December 1993, the official exchange rate quoted by the NBG for the U.S. dollar was Georgian coupon 102,300 per US$1. For all commercial transactions, the exchange rates of the coupon are negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The NBG is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, which are formulated in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. Decree No. 259 on First-Stage of Liberalization of Foreign Exchange Activity of March 5, 1992 has established the legal basis for the conduct of foreign economic activities in Georgia. The main provisions of this decree (1) allow all enterprises to engage directly in foreign trade, (2) allow all residents to acquire and hold foreign currency and engage in foreign transactions with a licensed foreign exchange dealer, and (3) authorize banks to open foreign exchange accounts for all residents. Trade with countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. is controlled by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER) (Decree No. 265 of March 31,1993 on Quotas and Licensing of Merchandise Trade). The NBG has the authority to issue general for- eign exchange dealing licenses to banks that will permit them to engage in foreign exchange transac- tions with residents and nonresidents and to open correspondent accounts with banks outside Geor- gia. The NBG also has the authority to issue inter- nal licenses to banks that will permit them to engage in the same range of foreign exchange trans- actions as general license holders, except that hold- ers of internal licenses may not open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. All transfers of foreign exchange by holders of internal licenses must be carried out through correspondent accounts held either with the NBG or with a bank that holds a general license. As of the end of December 1993, 19 banks held general licenses, while 65 banks held internal licenses. The NBG also has the authority to issue licenses for the establishment of exchange bureaus to engage in cash transactions of all kinds. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made in some cases through a system of corre- spondent accounts and in others, in convertible cur- rency. Settlements with countries (including the states of the former U.S.S.R.) with which Georgia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.2 Settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises are permit- ted to open and operate foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. There are no restrictions on the 1 On April 5,1993, the National Bank of Georgia began to issue coupons, which circulate along with the Russian ruble; on August 3,1993, the Georgian coupon was declared the sole legal tender. 2At the end of 1993, Georgia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 187 use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. The opening of for- eign exchange accounts abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and the NBG. Nonresidents may maintain foreign exchange and local currency accounts with banks in Georgia. Imports and Exports There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, and licenses are not required, except for weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, pharmaceuticals, and agricultural pesticides, which are issued by the SCFER. A customs duty of 2 percent is levied on all imports, except food items (excluding tobacco and alcoholic beverages) and imports under barter operations, irrespective of the currency denomina- tion of the contract. A customs duty of 20 percent is levied on all imports under barter operations, but not on imports under government agreements. All imports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be purchased freely from authorized banks at market rates. There is no legal prohibition on exports, but licenses are required for items such as food and raw materials. Exports of arms, narcotics, precious met- als, and some raw materials are subject, in practice, to export prohibitions or are limited to the quantities available after allocation for domestic consumption and exports under bilateral agreements. The licens- ing of exports is administered by the SCFER. The SCFER takes into account such factors as whether exports would create shortages of goods in the domestic market and whether quotas under bilateral agreements have been, or will be, fulfilled. An export tax of 8 percent is levied on all exports denominated in a convertible currency. All exports are subject to a general customs processing fee of 0.2 percent. Exporters are required to surrender 32 percent of proceeds in convertible currencies; of this amount, 20 percent is transferred to the State Foreign Exchange Fund of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic, 10 percent is transferred to the NBG, and 2 percent is transferred to foreign exchange funds of local governments. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange to make payments for invisible transactions or use foreign exchange balances in their foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations and procedures as those applicable to the proceeds from exports. The importation of foreign currency notes is unre- stricted, but amounts must be declared on arrival. The exportation of foreign currency notes by non- residents is permitted up to a limit equal to the amount originally imported. The exportation of for- eign currency notes by residents is freely permitted, provided income taxes have been paid on the funds that were used to purchase foreign currency notes. Capital Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted, but are subject to registration require- ments for monitoring purposes. Gold A license is required to conduct both interna- tional and domestic trade in gold. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 5. Georgian coupons were introduced to cir- culate along with Russian rubles. April 27. The Tbilisi Exchange Fund was established by the NBG and 15 other commercial banks to hold weekly auctions of U.S. dollars and deutsche mark. June 14. Exchange bureaus were authorized to buy and sell foreign currency notes. August 3. The Georgian coupon was declared sole legal tender. Exports and Export Proceeds June 10. The requirement that 12 percent of export proceeds in convertible currencies must be surren- dered as a prepayment of tax liabilities was replaced by a 32 percent surrender requirement; of this amount, 10 percent would be transferred to the State Foreign Exchange Fund of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic, 10 percent to the NBG, and 2 percent to foreign exchange funds of local governments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Por- tugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and interven- tion mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 The arrangements imply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified interven- tion rates. On December 31, 1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 5.6300 30.4450 34.6250 2.8000 90.7708 1.1740 1.4680 4.1750 22.5750 25.6750 2.0760 86.7800 0.8710 1.0880 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of Frankfurt am Main.2 On December 31, 1993, the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.7263 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both com- 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 188 mercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is oper- ated by the Federal Ministry of Economics; the Fed- eral Ministry of Finance; the Federal Ministry of Transportation; the Federal Office for Economics; the Federal Office for Export Control; the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry; the Federal Office for Food and Forestry; the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization; and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out for- eign exchange transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Germany notified the Fund on November 5, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and trans- fers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Furthermore, in compliance with UN resolutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of Haiti and Libya. Imports and Import Payments The import list comprises 10,370 statistical posi- tions. Their treatment is as follows: The importation of 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regarding international trade in tex- tiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilat- eral agreements and regulations of the European Union (EU) with various supplier countries. Imports of pit coal from countries that are not mem- bers of the EU and the European Free Trade Associ- ation (EFTA) are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. Imports of brown coal are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 189 subject to import licensing from countries on coun- try List C3 except Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. The importation of certain nontextile goods from the People's Republic of China is subject to an annual global quota of the EU. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EU covers 2,054 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which have in large part replaced previous barriers to imports. A new recording system for imports of goods and services from other EU member coun- tries was put in place with the completion of the single European market on January 1,1993. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Commod- ity futures may be dealt in freely, and most transit trade transactions may be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions—but not the related payments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the con- clusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions (for strategic goods), export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual or general licensing. The cus- toms authorities exercise control over export decla- rations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require a license. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance involving the delivery to residents of non-OECD countries of con- struction drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture if such assistance is for the production of goods whose exportation requires a license (stra- tegic goods). There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of bonds denominated in deut- sche mark. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12,1981, no restrictions are applied to the sale of German money market papers and fixed-interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresi- dents' direct investments in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inher- ited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years. The minimum reserve ratios on foreign liabilities, which are, in principle, the same as those applied to domestic lia- bilities, were reduced effective March 1, 1993 and March 1, 1994 and are now 5 percent on sight deposits and 2 percent on savings and time depos- its. Book liabilities to nonresidents in foreign cur- rency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign currency with maturities of less than four years. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold 3 Countries on List C are Albania, the former member coun- tries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) except Hungary; the People's Republic of China; the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Viet Nam. All other countries are on List A /B. Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may negotiate with residents or nonresidents, both at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports and exports of gold in any form ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GERMANY by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys, while free of customs duty, are sub- ject to value-added tax at the rate of 15 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the assess- ment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundes- bank are exempt from value-added tax and customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is lev- ied on transactions in gold bullion carried out on gold exchanges between brokers admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of arti- cles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) Capital March 1. The minimum reserve ratios on all (including foreign) liabilities in the form of savings and time deposits were reduced to 2 percent from 4.95 percent and 4.15 percent, respectively. Changes During 1994 Capital March 1. The minimum reserve ratio on sight deposits was reduced to 5 percent from 12.1 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi, whose exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. The average exchange rate in this market is used for official valuation purposes but is not always applied by authorized banks in their trans- actions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain nonconvertible currencies of the West African region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are applied only to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted nonconvertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. Authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate in the interbank market was <Z 822 per US$1. Since February 1,1988, any person, bank, or insti- tution licensed by the Bank of Ghana is allowed to operate a foreign exchange bureau. Foreign exchange bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sell- ers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide imports and approved services may be funded through the bureaus. With effect from May 17,1991, all authorized foreign exchange dealers (which include some nonbank foreign exchange bureaus) have been subject to limits on their net open positions in foreign exchange; hold- ings of foreign exchange in excess of these limits must be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. There are no arrangements for forward exchange transactions, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Ghana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 2,1994. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regu- late all imports. The Foreign Transactions Examina- tions Office (FTEO) of the Bank of Ghana records and confirms foreign capital inflows and adminis- ters foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the pri- vate sector are approved and transacted by autho- rized banks without reference to the Bank of Ghana. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to resi- dents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Ghana maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. These agreements are inoperative, and the clearing balances are being settled. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 Nonresident Accounts GHANA Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. It is also available to inter- national institutions and foreign-registered compa- nies operating in Ghana and to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be approved by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible cur- rency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for pur- chases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called official accounts or territorial accounts. They may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from foreign accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents—for example, certain types of capital pro- ceeds—may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports have been liberalized, except for those prohibited for reasons of health and security and those prohibited by Ghanaian laws. Effective January 14, 1989, all import-licensing require- ments were abolished; importers are now required to file an Import Declaration Form, which is not subject to approval, through the authorized banks for statistical purposes only. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, while pub- lic sector imports must go through the Ghana Sup- ply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks on a sight basis. For imports valued at more than $5,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank drafts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are approved and effected by authorized banks, provided that appli- cations are supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas banks for import payments are generally authorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f.o.b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documented. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry a maximum of $3,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. In addition, resident travelers are permitted to carry a maximum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies for direct purchases abroad. Autho- rized dealer banks are permitted to remit profits and foreign investments without prior approval from the Bank of Ghana. The exportation of Ghana- ian bank notes is permitted up to QL 5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of narcotics, carrots, and goods prohibited by Ghanaian laws. With the exception of cocoa, which is exported through the Cocoa Board, exports of agricultural commodities have been lib- eralized. Diamonds are exported through the Pre- cious Metal Marketing Corporation and Ghana Consolidated Diamond Company. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the pro- ceeds from their exports within 60 days of ship- ment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 193 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the exportation of electricity do not have to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings may be held in accounts abroad for financing essential imports or credited to the exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are supported by relevant documents, retained export earnings may be sold at the foreign exchange bureaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical services, or educational expenses abroad, or for any other approved invisi- ble payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange acquired for the purpose of foreign travel are sub- ject to a processing fee of 0.5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code of 1981, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liqui- dation, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Invest- ment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds from sales of foreign ownership to Ghana- ian nationals are permitted to be transferred by authorized dealer banks. Under a supplementary investment code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a minerals code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties on imports of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable depreciation or capi- tal allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum qualifying amount of investment capital is $10,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and $100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Trans- fers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies do not require approval. Residents who are private persons are not nor- mally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Nonresi- dents may deal in securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange and they may hold up to 10 percent of such security listings. Total holdings of all exter- nal residents in a company may not exceed 14 per- cent. For portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval to switch holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Private sector and commer- cial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at $100,000 or more. Foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain government guidelines. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits, which require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, the industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in addition to their regular retention accounts) with funds earmarked from export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Cred- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 GHANA its and the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and payments out of these accounts. Accounts have also been established for the dia- mond sector and for the fishing and timber com- panies financed with suppliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. Ghanaian residents may not buy or bor- row any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 21. Ghana formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Exporters of nontraditional products were permitted to retain up to 100 percent of pro- ceeds in foreign currency accounts in their banks in Ghana. Capital June 22. Nonresidents were allowed to deal in securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange, sub- ject to a 10 percent limit for an individual and 14 percent limit for total holdings by nonresidents in any one listed security. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main intervention currency, and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece and the authorized com- mercial banks participate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. On December 31, 1993, buying and sell- ing rates in the interbank market were Dr 248.472 and Dr 249.968, respectively, per US$1. The com- mercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic spot and for- ward exchange market. Credit institutions in Greece may freely conduct with residents spot and forward transactions (including currency options) if connected with trade and transactions involving interest, divi- dends, and profits; if not connected with the above categories of transactions, the forward cover and option agreements must have a maturity of at least three months. Credit institutions in Greece may also freely conduct forward foreign exchange transac- tions, including currency swaps and options. The Bank of Greece provides to credit institutions for- ward foreign exchange transactions including cur- rency swaps and options. The exchange rates applied by the credit institu- tions in the above-mentioned transactions are freely determined. Banks are not allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions related to these transactions that exceed an overnight limit set by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System. The drachma is included in the ECU bas- ket, but Greece does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism of the EMS. Greece formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 22,1992. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos, and Spanish pesetas. Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are autho- rized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports accord- ing to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in for- eign exchange for invisibles and capital transactions within the framework of existing regulations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonres- idents' deposit accounts in drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Nonresidents' Accounts in Drachmas Accounts in foreign currency. These accounts may be maintained in Greece by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (including seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with for- eign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Savings and time depos- its may be opened for up to 12 months. Greek resi- dents may also open these accounts with undeclared foreign bank notes; principal and inter- est on these accounts may be withdrawn in drach- mas and in foreign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. The Bank of Greece sets a maxi- mum limit on interest on these accounts, except for the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and the rate on nonresidents' deposits in certain currencies, which is negotiable. Greek residents may also maintain accounts in for- eign currency with foreign financial institutions abroad, provided that their original maturity is at least one year. Nonresidents' accounts in drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. These accounts may be credited with (1) drachma proceeds from foreign exchange; (2) trans- 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 GREECE fers of drachmas from other similar accounts of the same or other depositors as long as the proceeds do not originate from restricted short-term transac- tions; and (3) drachmas derived from liberalized transactions. Interest rates on these deposits are freely negotiable. Credit institutions operating in Greece are freely allowed to invest these deposits in the drachma market. Blocked accounts. Claims of non-European Union (EU) residents denominated in drachmas and deposited in blocked accounts can be withdrawn and transferred abroad without the approval of the Bank of Greece, with effect from July 1,1993. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the member countries of the EU are not subject to approval or clearance procedures. Approval for imports from non-EU member coun- tries is granted automatically by the commercial banks, either before or after the goods are shipped and the required amount of foreign exchange is made available. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; these products are under surveillance according to EU quotas. Special regula- tions govern imports of certain items, such as medi- cines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases, they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange for all invisible payments after veri- fying, as appropriate, the authenticity and legality of the intended transactions. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to cap- ital transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Remittances for family maintenance and earnings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. Foreign banks operat- ing in Greece are permitted to repatriate their prof- its, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece within a year of their arrival may take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of $1,000, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irre- spective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek bank notes. Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, pro- vided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain balances in for- eign currency accounts equivalent to 20 percent of proceeds from exports in the previous calendar year with banks operating in Greece. Exporters may use these balances to repay external obligations, including suppliers' credits, and conduct autho- rized capital transactions. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 90 days of the date of issue of the relevant invoice; 10 percent of these earnings of the previous calen- dar year may also be deposited in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece. Earnings from ocean-going shipping are exempt from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure, and not later than December 31 of the calendar year fol- lowing the year in which they entered Greece; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 40,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. The amount of Greek bank notes a nonresident may bring into Greece is lim- ited to Dr 100,000. Capital Greek public and private enterprises and profes- sionals are allowed to borrow foreign exchange from banks, foreign juridical persons, or individu- als residing abroad without prior approval from the Bank of Greece, provided that the maturity of loans is longer than one year. This regulation excludes enterprises that own or operate ocean-going ves- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 197 sels, unit trusts, mutual funds, securities companies and brokers, and buyers or builders of houses for private purposes. For exporting firms, the maturity of the loans can be less than 12 months, provided the firms service their loans with their export earn- ings. Financial credits and loans including personal loans with an original maturity of less than one year are restricted; sureties, other guarantees, and rights of pledge are also restricted if they are extended to residents of non-EU member countries. The following direct investments by residents of non-EU member countries are restricted: (1) invest- ment in border regions; (2) investment in maritime transport; (3) acquisition of mining rights; and (4) participation in new or existing enterprises if engaged in radio and television broadcasting or air transport. Direct investments are governed by Legislative Decree No. 2687/1953, Presidential Decree Nos. 207/ 1987 and 96/1993, and Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece Nos. 825/1986 and 2227/1993. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sover- eigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an autho- rized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a spe- cial license; licenses are normally issued to import- ers for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re-exported after being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 7. Certain categories of foreign exchange transactions between residents in the domestic for- eign exchange market, including transactions m derivatives, were liberalized. The regulations gov- erning the foreign exchange markets were simpli- fied and codified. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Nonresidents' Accounts in Drachmas May 7. Nonresidents' accounts in drachmas with credit institutions operating in Greece were liberal- ized. Residents were permitted to open accounts in foreign currency with financial institutions in EU member countries, provided that these accounts have an original maturity of at least one year. June 30. Residents were permitted to open deposit accounts in foreign currency with non-EU financial institutions provided that these accounts have an original maturity of at least one year. All restrictions on withdrawals and payments abroad from blocked accounts were abolished. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) Exports and Export Proceeds June 22. Exporters were allowed to maintain bal- ances in foreign currency accounts equivalent to 20 percent of proceeds from exports in the previous year calendar year with banks operating in Greece and use these balances to repay external obligations and carry out authorized capital transactions. Capital March 23. All capital transactions with EU mem- ber countries were liberalized, except financial credits and loans (including personal loans) with an original maturity of less than one year. June 30. All capital transaction with non-EU member countries were liberalized, except financial credits and loans (including personal loans) with an original maturity of less than one year; also excluded from the liberalization were sureties, other guarantees, rights of pledge investments in border regions, maritime transport, acquisition of mining rights, and participation in new or existing enterprises if engaged in radio and television broadcasting or air transport. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Grenada formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 24,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The ministry delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers trade control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from exter- nal accounts. Settlements with residents of coun- 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. tries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Carib- bean dollars. Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts, maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars, may be credited with proceeds from the sales of foreign currencies, with transfers from other external accounts, with bank interest (payable on external accounts), and with payments by residents for which the ministry has given gen- eral or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely deb- ited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments On May 1,1991, Grenada implemented the Com- mon External Tariff of the Caribbean Common Mar- ket. All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported, but imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas, cigarettes, processed pork products, curry powder, war toys, mops, childrens garments, dio- thene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for the banana industry, solar water heaters, electric accumulators for automobiles, and aluminum win- dows, doors, and associated items. Certain other 3 Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 199 commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions and require an import license. Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval from this ministry. Imports of capital equipment are exempt from import duties as are imports by the commodity asso- ciations that are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, and nut- meg, and imports of fuel by the Grenada Electric Company. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax (VAT) of 20 percent of c.i.f. value, with the exception of imports of raw mate- rials for use in local manufacturing of finished prod- ucts, which are subject to an 8 percent VAT. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM are subject to special surcharges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, including foreign travel (up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person a calendar year for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on poli- cies contracted before June 1975. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the Ministry of Finance provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the exportation of cer- tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds are sur- rendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but export proceeds must be repatriated. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean cur- rency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents may not purchase for- eign currency securities or real estate abroad for private purposes. Certificates of title to foreign cur- rency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. The transfer of funds by emigrants is allowed. The Ministry of Finance considers transfer applications from for- eign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad on a case-by-case basis. With exchange control approval, nonresidents may invest directly in Grenada. The remittance of earnings on, and the liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Minis- try of Finance. Nonresidents may use foreign cur- rency to acquire real estate in Grenada for private purposes; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for residents to borrow abroad or for non- residents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance approved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Minis- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20C GRENADA try of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement Changes During 1993 Excha nge Arra ngemen t January 1. The exchange tax levied on certain sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks was reduced from 5 percent to 2.5 percent. January 1. The 2.5 percent exchange tax was eliminated. January 24. Grenada formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains an exchange system under which the exchange rate is determined through daily auctions held by the Bank of Guate- mala (BOG), with unrestricted access for the private sector and public entities.1 One day before the auc- tion, all bidders, including financial institutions, must lodge with the BOG a deposit in local cur- rency at the bid exchange rate equivalent to 100 percent of the amount they plan to bid at the auction. The maximum daily amount of foreign exchange a bidder may bid at the auction is $250,000, and the maximum amount that banks may sell to individual customers from their own resources is $20,000. The BOG intervenes in the exchange market by controlling the amount of for- eign exchange that it supplies to the auction and by restricting bidding to a range of Q0.05 above and below the exchange base rate, which is adjusted upwards (or downwards) if bids are consistently made above (or below) the base rate for 15 consecu- tive auctions. The supply of foreign exchange to the BOG auctions is derived from proceeds from activi- ties carried out in the country that must be surren- dered to the BOG at an exchange rate that is set daily at a level equal to the average successful bid rates during the previous three working days. Nor- mally, the BOG retains part of the foreign exchange surrendered to it to meet its own and public enti- ties' requirements. Commercial banks, finance com- panies, and foreign exchange houses are authorized by the Monetary Board to participate in the auction market as agents of the Bank of Guatemala. The exchange rates are determined freely in accordance with market forces, and the Bank of Guatemala intervenes only to smooth sudden fluctuations, to purchase foreign exchange for the public sector, and to service its own external debt. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the Bank of Guatemala at a ref- erence rate that is equivalent to the weighted aver- *Any person or enterprise that wants to purchase more than $5,000 can participate in the public auction of foreign exchange. The banks and foreign exchange houses meet demand for for- eign currency below $5,000, at a freely agreed exchange rate. The public sector and private importers of oil have the option of pur- chasing foreign exchange outside the auction. The BOG sells for- eign exchange to these buyers at the reference exchange rate, which is equivalent to the buying rate plus 1 percent. age of the buying and selling rates in the bank market during the previous day. Banks and finance companies may maintain a net foreign exchange position of up to of 25 percent of their capital and reserves; for the exchange houses, this limit is set at 100 percent. Foreign exchange exceeding these lim- its at the end of each day must be sold to the Bank of Guatemala at the reference rate. All exporters must sell their foreign exchange proceeds to the authorized institutions within days of obtaining a license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Financial institutions act as agents of the BOG to purchase foreign exchange from the public, for which they receive a commission of 0.25 percent. They must transfer to the BOG foreign exchange acquired the day following the transac- tion. Banks charge a commission of 1 percent on sales of foreign exchange, one half of which is returned to the BOG. The auction rate on December 31, 1993 was Q5.81758 per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the bank market were Q5.77302 and Q5.85742, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dollar2 are officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. The BOG is authorized, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, to sell foreign exchange out- side the auction system to producers who need to pay for the importation of capital goods and who had previously sold foreign exchange to the BOG obtained through foreign financial institutions. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala (for example, servicing of its external debt disbursed before June 6, 1986) are conducted at an accounting exchange rate of QO.l per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala does not issue exchange rate guarantees. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27,1947, Guatemala formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 Administration of Control GUATEMALA The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guate- mala; those of the private sector are made through banks and foreign exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports of goods must be reg- istered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars, domestic currency, or other means of payment in accordance with special payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Import tariff rates range from 5 percent to 20 per- cent in accordance with Guatemala's agreement with other Central American countries on a com- mon external tariff. The agreement provides tempo- rary exceptions for textiles, clothing, and footwear, and the tariffs on these are expected to be adjusted in 1995. Imports of chicken up to a monthly quota of 300 tons are subject to a tariff at the rate of 20 percent, and imports exceeding this quota are subject to a tariff of 45 percent. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and tallow. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. A few other items, includ- ing gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver, may not be exported in any form. Exports of wheat flour, ethyl alcohol, roasted coffee, and tobacco and cigarettes to Central American countries are temporarily restricted. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Gua- temalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise. The granting of export permits is con- tingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 90 days). In the case of exports to Central America, there are arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national currencies, U.S. dol- lars, or barter. If the economic agents decide to set- tle their payments in U.S. dollars, the export revenues must be sold to the BOG. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, interna- tional credit card payments, and certain others are permitted without restriction. Capital All capital transactions may take place without restriction. Nonresident (and resident) investors are exempted from a 12.5 percent tax on interest paid on foreign borrowing if the funds are channeled through the domestic banking system. Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is gov- erned by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through autho- rized banks and is entitled to buy gold holdings surrendered by any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accordance with the directives of the Monetary Board. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 10. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, the BOG was authorized to sell foreign exchange outside the auction system to producers who need to pay for the importation of capital goods and who had previously obtained foreign resources from financing institutions and sold its proceeds to the BOG (Monetary Board Resolution JM-156-93). May 12. Financial institutions were required to lodge one day in advance with the BOG a deposit in local currency at the bid exchange rate equivalent to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 203 100 percent of the amount they plan to bid at the auction (Monetary Board Resolution JM-294-93). Administration of Control February 19. Foreign exchange houses were authorized to operate in the exchange market on the same basis as commercial banks (Monetary Board Resolution JM-106-93). Imports and Import Payments February 1. Guatemala signed a framework agree- ment for free trade and investment with other Cen- tral American countries, Colombia, and Venezuela. March 1. Guatemala and the other CACM coun- tries established a new common external import tariff (textiles, clothing, and footwear would be exempted temporarily, and import tariffs on these products would be adjusted in 1995). Guatemala adopted an import tariff regime consisting of rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent. May 20. Antidumping/countervailing duty legis- lation was introduced. October 6. Central American countries agreed on a list of products to be subject to restrictions in the intraregional trade (raw coffee beans, sugar cane, and petroleum products) and some products for which bilateral trade would be restricted between individual CACM countries. Exports and Export Proceeds October 6. Temporary restrictions in the bilateral trade among Central American countries were imposed. Export products of Guatemala affected were wheat flour, ethyl alcohol, roasted coffee, tobacco, and cigarettes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate of the Guinean franc against the SDR is set in weekly fixing sessions and is quoted in terms of the SDR. The private sector and public enterprises, through the intermediation of commercial banks, may sell and purchase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, except for limitations placed on purchases for tourist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by nonresi- dent workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the rates of these currencies against the SDR, as published by the IMF. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. On December 31, 1993, the official exchange rate for the Guinean franc vis-a-vis the SDR was GF 1,347.0 per SDR 1. Foreign exchange bureaus are in operation, and exchange rates in the market are determined by supply and demand con- ditions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank of Guinea, which has delegated to the commercial banks authority to (1) approve import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import applica- tion forms (demandes descriptives d'importation) for amounts of up to $200,000; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign airline tickets (travelers holding tickets issued by Compagnie Nationale Air Guinee must apply to the Central Bank for their travel allowances); and (3) manage foreign currency accounts opened in the name of nonresidents. All settlements with foreign coun- tries, including payments for imports, require approval from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in cur- rencies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts Guinean residents must have approval from the Central Bank before opening deposit accounts in foreign currency at the domestic commercial banks. However, exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their revenue in foreign currency in local bank accounts. For gold exporters, this proportion can be as high as 50 percent. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: nonresident transferable accounts in foreign curren- cies, which may be opened freely, subject to notifi- cation of the Central Bank by commercial banks; and nonresident accounts in Guinean francs, which may also be opened freely. Accounts in Convertible Guinean Francs Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. They are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irre- spective of its origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks into for- eign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. Interest rates on these are negoti- ated between the account holder and the bank. Imports and Import Payments All products except armaments, ammunition, and narcotics may be freely imported into Guinea. All imports of less than $200,000 require authori- zation, which is granted by the commercial banks 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 205 on behalf of the Central Bank. Authorization is given for two types of imports: (1) imports with access to foreign exchange provided at rates deter- mined during weekly fixing sessions; and (2) imports financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources (autorisation sans achat de devises). To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (for imports valued at less than $5,000 f.o.b.) or an import application request form (for imports valued at more than $5,000 f.o.b.), on which they must provide informa- tion on products to be imported, including price, quantity, quality, and financing terms. For imports with access to the auction market, authorization is given only after price, quality, and terms of financing (for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by three "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; and AREDOR, the diamond com- pany) and foreign embassies. All products are subject to a 12 percent turnover tax, customs duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and customs charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following excep- tions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a sur- tax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all lux- ury goods, and a surtax of 30-60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports of the four mixed enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6 percent levy. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require central bank authorization. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with compa- nies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to $800 with no restriction on the number of trips; each application is considered individually. Gov- ernment staff on official missions are permitted an allowance of $140 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents may be granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or may be permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Monthly payments for family support through the official market may be made up to amounts determined on the merits of the case; for study abroad, the exchange allowance doesrnot require official authorization and is provided without limit with supporting documentation. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad and that certified dividends and royalties may be trans- ferred in full. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings and only for those contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. The exportation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description to help prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption and iden- tify capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempt from this requirement. The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds requires special authorization from designated agencies. Planters may be granted special authorization to export a specific quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits. Private traders may be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold exporters and vendors are required to surrender their export proceeds but may retain 25 percent to 50 percent of proceeds in foreign exchange deposits with commercial banks. This amount may be increased depending on the volume and type of products, especially with respect to gold and diamonds. The mixed-economy compa- nies are allowed to retain all of their export pro- ceeds abroad and may use the balances to pay for their imports and operating requirements and to service their external debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 206 Proceeds from Invisibles GUINEA In principle, residents must surrender exchange proceeds accruing from invisibles if they do not hold foreign currency accounts. The importation of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permit- ted freely, subject to declaration on entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of return. Certain residents, by vir- tue of their occupation, are authorized to deposit their foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency or convertible Guinean franc accounts. The Central Bank of Guinea levies a fee of 0.25 percent of pro- ceeds in foreign bank notes transferred through commercial banks. The importation of Guinean cur- rency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applica- ble to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of 8-10 years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The mini- mum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have con- trolling interests in enterprises requiring foreign investment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold The Central Bank purchases gold in Guinean francs at international prices; at the seller's request, the Central Bank may purchase 50 percent of out- put in foreign currency. Since the monetary reform of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver commemora- tive coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restriction. Only the exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 7. The mandatory deposit requirement of GF 5 million by foreign exchange bureaus was abol- ished, and the limit of $5,000 on sales of foreign exchange by foreign exchange bureaus was elimi- nated; statistical requirements applicable to foreign exchange bureaus were reduced (monthly state- ment of purchase and sale operations, average exchange rate applied). Accounts in Convertible Guinean Francs June 3. The interest premium paid on bank deposit accounts in convertible Guinean francs was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso. There are two exchange markets: the official market and the free exchange market. In the official market, the external value of the peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar. The official rate is adjusted daily to keep the spread between the buying rate in the official and free markets at no more than 2 percent. The difference between the buying and selling official exchange rates is limited to no more than 2 percent. In principle, the exchange rate in the free market is determined by sup- ply and demand conditions, although the Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau has intervened occasionally. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were PG 11,464 and PG 11,693, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign currency in Guinea-Bissau. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank exercises control over foreign exchange transactions involving the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. For- eign exchange transactions effected by commercial banks with resources derived from sources other than those of the Central Bank are in general not controlled by the Central Bank. Residents are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange in their possession without revealing its sources. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in foreign currency, although certain external obligations have been settled with goods on a very few occasions in the past. Guinea-Bissau is a partic- ipant in the West African Clearing House, which includes the member countries of the Central Bank of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone. Nonresidents may open demand and time accounts in foreign currency with commercial banks and may use balances on these accounts without restriction, except that they must give prior notice for withdrawals above certain pre-estab- lished limits. Residents may also maintain these accounts (1) if they are authorized to engage in for- eign currency transactions; or (2) if they receive income in foreign currency under contracts with nonresidents. Banks may pay interest of up to 4 percent a year on demand accounts in foreign cur- rency, whereas interest rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely Imports and Import Payments All imports, regardless of whether they involve use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Importagao) issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism. Since official availability of for- eign exchange in the country is not considered when licenses are issued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their possession does not guarantee the importers access to the official exchange market. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically af ter verification of invoice prices for goods to be imported. Importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system with their own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the parallel market. However, payments for imports with foreign exchange purchased from the Central Bank or administered by the Central Bank require authorization from the Central Bank, and authori- zation is granted on the basis of the priority of the products involved and the availability of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1991, the state monopoly over imports of petroleum and petroleum products was abolished. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles by the public sector at the official exchange rate are effected through the Cen- tral Bank. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 GUINEA-BISSAU Payments for invisibles by the private sector take place at the freely determined exchange rate and may be made without restriction. These payments may take place through commercial banks and the foreign exchange house. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange that they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a prior export license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Exportaqad). Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. As in the case of imports, prior licenses are intended primarily for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products whose exportation is reserved solely for the public sector. In general, all exports are subject to a customs services tax of 6 percent (5 percent for cashew nuts). In addition, exports of cashew nuts are subject to a special tax, the rate of which has been reduced over the years and is currently 18 percent. Agricultural exports are also subject to a rural property tax (Con- tribuigao Predial Rustica), at the rate of 2 percent on processed products and at the rate of 1 percent on unprocessed products. Special arrangements apply to exports to the mem- ber countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS, to which Guinea-Bissau belongs); for example, exports to these countries are exempt from the 6 percent customs services tax. Exporters are required to surrender 40 percent of proceeds to the Central Bank and the remainder to the commercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Under the foreign exchange regulations that came into effect in 1991, neither residents nor non- residents are required to sell to the Central Bank foreign exchange they receive from abroad, and they are free to sell foreign exchange in their pos- session on the free exchange market. Capital Foreign direct investments are governed by the Investment Code of 1985, which was amended most recently by Decree-Law No. 4/91, promul- gated on September 30,1991. Under the Investment Code, a set of incentives to foreign direct invest- ments has been set, and foreign and domestic investments have been subject to the same terms with respect to access to domestic credit. The Investment Code provides protection against nationalization of investment and expropriation of assets and recognizes the right of foreign investors to transfer foreign currency abroad in respect of profits (net of taxes), to sell or liquidate invest- ments, to service loans obtained for project financ- ing, and to make payments for imported supply and technical assistance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized by the appropriate government authorities. The Central Bank may engage in gold purchases and sale transactions with the public. Changes During 1993 Excha nge Arra ngemen t December 29. The difference between the official and the free market exchange rates was reduced from 3.5 percent to 2 percent; the spread between the official buying and selling rates was also reduced from 3.5 percent to 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, the external value of which is determined freely by market forces in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers in the cambio market on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), the Bank of Guyana quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies.1 On Decem- ber 31,1993, the average buying and selling rates in the cambio market were G$128.17 and G$130.31, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Guyana quotes rates for pounds sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the U.S. dollar/pound sterling and the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar cross rates quoted by the Bank of England. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at different rates on purchases and sales of officially quoted currencies. Transactions effected through the Bank of Guy- ana are limited, on the receipts side, to exports of sugar, bauxite, and gold, and, on the payments side, mainly to imports of fuel and official debt-service payments. All other transactions are effected in the cambio market. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vided to certain deposits in blocked accounts. (See section on Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 27,1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted this authority to the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade, Tour- ^or the operations of the CARICOM Bilateral Settlement Arrangements, the Bank of Guyana sets rates for the CARICOM currencies every Friday on the basis of the average rates of the commercial banks and the five largest nonbank cambio dealers in the week ending the preceding Wednesday. The currencies to which this rate applies are the Barbados dollar, the Eastern Car- ibbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. ism, and Industry is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act (on March 13,1990), the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control notices that related to (1) basic travel allow- ances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) subscriptions to clubs and societies, including entrance fees; (4) payments for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until further notice, dealers are no longer authorized to accept deposits into the external payments deposit scheme for payment of imports from countries outside the CARICOM. Under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licens- ing) Act, with the payment of a fee of G$250,000, individuals, partnerships, and companies may be licensed for a period of one year (renewable) to engage in foreign currency dealings; these dealers are required to submit weekly returns of the trans- actions they conduct to the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an exter- nal account in Guyana dollars.2 Settlements with resi- dents of CARICOM countries must be made either through external accounts (in Guyana dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: external accounts and blocked accounts. External accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guy- ana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other external accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Guyana dollar. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 GUYANA Blocked accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- residents (for example, certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including purchases of approved securi- ties. Since mid-1978, blocked accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related inter- est rate. The Bank of Guyana provides a partial exchange rate guarantee at the rates of G$3.25/ G$3.75 per US$1 for deposits made before the deval- uation of January 1984; at G$5.0 per US$1 for depos- its made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and the end of January 1987; at G$10 per US$1 for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made after March 1989. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or through South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of certain products are also restricted, subject to import-licensing controls, from all non-CARICOM sources. These restrictions are cur- rently applicable to four categories of food, that is, unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items. There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum products and some 20 items affecting national security, health, public safety, and the environment. Intra-CARlCOM trade is free of import duties, quo- tas, and import-licensing arrangements. The Com- mon External Tariff (CET) of the CARICOM is applied to imports from outside the CARICOM. Guy- ana is a party to an agreement among the CARICOM member states to implement a phased reduction in the CET rate structure from a band of 0-45 percent to 5-20 percent by January 1,1998.3 There are no import quotas. Import payments effected by commercial banks on behalf of the Bank of Guyana require the Bank's prior approval. Before the introduction of the cambio market, all applica- tions for official foreign exchange were required to be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve require- ment against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without 3As a first step, the max imum tariff rate was lowered to 30 per- cent on January 14,1994. restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio market without restric- tion. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$l,500 on departure. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign or local currency that may be taken out for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpo- ration, and bauxite and alumina, only by Linmine, Bermine, and Aroaima Bauxite Company. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are monitored by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that all proceeds of exports are repatriated and offered for sale to a licensed dealer. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports whose value exceeds G$20,000. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits some exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The retention ratio is 100 percent for bauxite, 20 percent for sugar, and 20 percent for gold. Retained foreign exchange may be used for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements and may be retained or sold in the cambio market without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency notes; travelers entering the country with foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000 must declare the amount. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Guyana Investment Policy of 1988. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries may borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. There are no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 211 restrictions on repatriation of capital. Residents and nonresidents have unlimited access to the cambio market for repatriation of funds. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, with- out special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits issued by the Guy- ana Geology and Mines Commission. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments December 17. All import-licensing requirements were eliminated, except for petroleum and certain items affecting national security, health, safety, and the environment. Payments for Invisibles March 12. The exit tax charged resident and non- resident travelers was increased to G$l,500 from G$l,000. Exports and Export Proceeds December 21. The foreign exchange retention ratio for sugar exporters was increased to 20 percent from 17.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, and its external value is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- ket. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange markets abroad. Commercial banks are required to limit the spread between their buying and selling rates to no more than 3 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 22,1953. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) administers the foreign exchange system. Article 52 of the decree-law of September 28, 1991 provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authori- ties, equal to 20 percent on any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank established in Haiti. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Resident Accounts Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; in accordance with Article 2 of the Decree of January 18, 1990, these accounts may be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Imports and Import Payments toms tariffs are levied at the following rates: gaso- line, 57.8 percent; maize, millet, rice, and flour, 50 percent; sugar, 40 percent; cement, 33 percent; and equipment, raw materials, and some inputs, 10 percent or lower. Pharmaceutical products are exempt from tariffs. Customs tariffs and the value- added tax applicable to most imports are calculated on the basis of the gourde equivalent of the c.i.f. value of the imported good, calculated at a special exchange rate. For tax and tariff purposes, equip- ment and inputs for the agricultural and industrial sectors are valued at a more favorable exchange rate. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent, which is payable in Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior authorization from the Ministry of Co nmerce and Industry. Authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. In accordance with Decree of July 7, 1989, a percentage (currently 40 percent) of all export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the central bank through the commercial banks at the reference rate.1 Exporters are required to negotiate documen- tary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. The cus- toms administration does not grant export approval unless those drafts are cleared by the central bank. Exchange houses are required to surrender all for- eign exchange transfers to the central bank.2 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 275 on tickets. All travelers must pay an airport tax. The tax for Haitian residents is G 125 and for nonresi- dents is $25. Diplomats and staff members of inter- national organizations accredited in Haiti are exempt from both taxes. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. There are no limits on the importation or exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Seven products (rice, millet, chicken, beans, maize, sugar, and pork) are subject to licensing requirements with quantitative restrictions. Cus- JThe reference rate is the weighted average of the exchange rates of all commercial banks, money brokers, and cambios. 2As of December 31, 1991, only the surrender requirement applicable to export proceeds was being enforced. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 213 Capital Capital transactions in gourdes are restricted; in practice, however, these restrictions are not imple- mented. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a decree of October 30,1982 and requires prior gov- ernment approval. Permission is normally not granted to nonresidents to invest in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep a min- imum of 85 percent of their liabilities in the form of domestic assets for local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The central bank has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Gold in any form other than jewelry carried as per- sonal effects by travelers may be imported and exported only by the central bank; exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Minis- try of Finance and Economic Affairs, as well as an endorsement from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, com- mercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 5. The central bank required that all exchange houses transfer their accounts in gourdes from commercial banks to the central bank, and commercial banks and exchange houses were required to maintain statements on their operations in the foreign exchange market for weekly inspec- tion by the central bank. Imports and Import Payments March 4. Cement in bulk form was subjected to a customs tariff at the rate of 7 percent and, in bag form, at 10 percent per 50 kilo bag. June 7. The customs tariffs on rice, milk, cement, and flour were suspended for the duration of the trade embargo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira. With the exception of debt-equity conversion, all exchange transactions are conducted in the inter- bank market, in which the exchange rate is deter- mined by supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1993, the buying rate in the interbank market was L 7.26 per U.S. dollar. Debt conversions are conducted at the rate of L 2 per US$1. Purchases and sales of the currencies of other Central Ameri- can countries are effected on the basis of quotations in lempiras, taking into account the value of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the interbank markets of the countries concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, effective July 1,1950. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Honduras administers exchange control regulations. Exporters are required to present a declaration to the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE), which maintains an import registry for statistical purposes only. Foreign investment regu- lations are administered by the Secretary of Econ- omy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mecha- nisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. Foreign currency accounts may be maintained with domestic banks without restriction. Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign cur- rency notes in their vaults, (2) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad, (3) investments in high-liquidity foreign instruments, or (4) advance export- or import-financing instruments. Registration is required for all imports valued at more than $5,000. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. The financing of imports is channeled either through the banking system or through exchange houses, with foreign exchange purchased in the free market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing obtained through export advances or government credit agreements with external institutions). Imports are subject to customs duties, ranging from zero to 20 percent.1 In addition, certain con- sumer goods are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 percent of the c.i.f. import value. The duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms registered in the regime of temporary imports (a drawback regime) are exempt from cus- toms duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are required to be registered only for sta- tistical purposes. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or exchange houses. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized foreign exchange obligations. Pro- ceeds from exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 25 days; the surrender period for other exports ranges from 30 days to 120 days. The commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell to the Central Bank a varying per- centage of their foreign exchange purchases, which is set from time to time by the Central Bank. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute. Bananas are subject to an export tax at the rate of $0.50 for each 40-pound box, but production from newly planted areas is exempt from the tax, and production from rehabilitated areas is subject to a tax at the rate of $0.25 per box. Sugar is subject to an export tax if its export price exceeds a specified level. Coffee exports whose f.o.b. value is more than 1 Over 1,600 products from other Central American countries are exempt from customs duties, except for an import surcharge of 5 percent. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 215 $70 per quintal (100 kilograms) are subject to a graduated tax that increases with the sale price. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All buyers of foreign exchange are required to fill out a form stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. There are no limits on the amount pur- chased. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign bank notes by travelers. Proceeds from invisibles are not required to be repatriated. Capital There are no restrictions on activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permis- sion to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of Congress is required for all public sector foreign borrowing. Pri- vate sector external debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms and foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors without restriction, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secretary of Economy and Trade, and repa- triation of registered capital and transfers of divi- dends and profits earned on such capital are not restricted. Investment insurance may be arranged in Honduras or abroad without restriction. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 1. Exchange houses were allowed to pur- chase foreign exchange from exporters of goods; previously, exporters were obligated to sell their foreign exchange only to commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments January 1. About 400 customs positions were exempted from the 10 percent import surcharge, leav- ing about 200 positions still subject to the surcharge. August 1. An additional 100 customs positions were exempted from the 10 percent import surcharge. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HKS7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the two note-issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued at the linked exchange rate, as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Similarly, the banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering local currency at the same linked exchange rate. Other licensed banks wishing to acquire (or exchange) local currency notes may purchase (or sell) them against an equivalent amount of U.S. dollars at the linked exchange rate with one of the note-issuing banks. For other trans- actions, the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates. However, the possibility of interest rate arbi- trage and currency arbitrage, together with the capability of the Exchange Fund to intervene in the market, tends to keep the market rate in line with the linked rate. On December 31, 1993, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, was HK$7.726 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives, and the Gov- ernment has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Direc- tor-General of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong 1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund 's Articles of Agreement. and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of restrictions, except for those restrictions maintained for reasons of health, safety, environmental protection, or security; for example, quantitative restrictions are placed on the importa- tion of rice to ensure an adequate supply for domestic consumption. All imports are free of duties, although an excise tax for revenue purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, alcoholic liquors, methyl alcohol, and some hydrocarbon oils. With a few exceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation or exportation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permit- ted imports may be made freely, at any time and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are required for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the Multifiber Arrangement and under a number of bilateral textile agreements. Other restrictions are maintained for reasons of health, ecology, safety, or security. Export proceeds may be collected at any time, and in any currency and need not be repatri- ated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Corporate (excluding financial institutions) earnings on investments, including interest on bank deposits in Hong Kong, are subject to the profits tax, but earnings from for- eign investments are not taxed. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is exempt from the profits tax. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 217 or foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking, or insur- ance and securities dealings. Otherwise, all over- seas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry within one month of estab- lishing a place of business in Hong Kong. Gold There are free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures that are open to residents and non- residents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Commemorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the forint is deter- mined on the basis of a currency basket comprising U.S. dollars (50 percent) and deutsche mark (50 per- cent). The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, principally in light of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. The official exchange rate is fixed daily around noon against the basket and calculated for 20 convertible currencies and the European cur- rency unit (ECU).1 The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) stands ready to effect transactions without limitation in any of these currencies at the fixed rate. Besides the dealing at the fixed rate the NBH is ready to make transactions between the margins of ±0.5 percent in three currencies: U.S. dollars, deut- sche mark, and Austrian schillings, above certain limits. The official spot buying and selling rates are maintained within margins of ±0.25 percent; licensed banks are free to quote their own rates within margins of ±0.5 percent for transactions in the interbank market and for their customers. How- ever, customers have the right to choose in advance whether the actual interbank exchange rate or the official rate will apply to their transactions with commercial banks. The official spot buying and sell- ing rates in U.S. dollars on December 31,1993 were Ft 100.45 and Ft 100.95, respectively, per US$1. Banks are free to set the exchange rates for currency notes and traveler's checks. As a transitional measure, transferable and clear- ing rubles continue to be used (1) for the settlement of certain outstanding financial claims related to contracts concluded before the end of 1990, and (2) for other settlements that are to be phased out. For outstanding claims, official exchange rates are quoted for the transferable and clearing ruble. At the end of December 1993, the middle rate for the forint against 1 transferable or clearing ruble was Ft 27.5. The NBH does not quote the exchange rate of the forint for currencies of countries belonging to the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) and many other countries; for cash trans- actions in those currencies the exchange rates are freely determined by the commercial banks and exchange offices. Agreements between Hungary and the Slovak Republic permit their national currencies to be con- verted into each other's currency through their respective banking systems for the purpose of tour- ist travel between the two countries at exchange rates freely determined by the commercial banks and exchange offices; they also stipulate limits on the importation of bank notes by travelers. Another agreement, concluded at the end of September 1991, extends the arrangement to payments through interbank settlements for a list of noncom- mercial transactions. Interbank settlements between the two countries in Hungarian forint and Slovak koruny have been actually made in low volume, only through one Hungarian and one Slovak com- mercial bank. The Czech Republic abandoned the same agreements with Hungary in the first half of 1993. As far as cash transactions are concerned, a free exchange market exists for the Slovak koruna, with trading organized by about 30 organizations; for the Czech koruna, trading is organized by 4 or 5 organizations; and for the currencies of Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, and the former U.S.S.R., trading is organized by 1 organization. The commercial banks may engage in forward transactions with terms ranging from seven days to one year, and forward exchange rates may be nego- tiated freely between the banks and their custom- ers. In practice, however, only two to three banks provide forward transactions for their main cus- tomers. The commercial banks may also enter into foreign currency swaps with the NBH. Administration of Control 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. In addition to the above, exchange rates are quoted for bank notes and traveler's checks in Greek drachmas. Authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions through the NBH, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions. The NBH may entrust other agencies, such as banking institu- 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 219 tions and travel agencies, with the performance of specified tasks. All economic organizations and private persons in Hungary are entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies and Hungarian forint after registering with the NBH (the Ministry of International Economic Relations before Jan- uary 1, 1992), provided that foreign trade is part of their business activities when incorporated. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Hungary notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), it had imposed certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Restrictions on the provision of financial services to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) were also imposed on May 6, 1993, in accordance with UN Resolution No. 820. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hungary has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is normally made in a convertible currency officially quoted in Hungary or in Hungarian forint. At the end of 1992, bilateral agreements were maintained with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and Viet Nam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods. At the end of 1993, it was not yet clear how Cambo- dia, Cuba, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and North Korea would settle their out- standing ruble debt. With the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, the transferable balance was settled in 1992, and with Poland, in early 1993. The bilateral agreements with the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic provided for the settlement of any remaining balance in the national currency of the debtor country. In November 1992, Hungary concluded an agreement with the Russian Federa- tion on the settlement of outstanding transferable ruble balances of the independent states of the former U.S.S.R. taken over by the Russian Federa- tion. Part of the balance has been settled with ship- ment of goods and by the transfer of equities of Russian companies and provision of Russian non- commercial services in Hungary, according to the agreed timetable. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons as well as resident natural persons may maintain convert- ible currency accounts freely at authorized com- mercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts only with funds orig- inating from specific sources, such as capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint- venture companies or donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, churches and social orga- nizations, and budgetary institutions. The accounts carry interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment up to a maxi- mum of the equivalent of Ft 1 million but no exchange rate guarantee in case of conversion. The interest rates on deposits are determined by the commercial banks. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Imports and Exports Beginning in December 1990, a general authori- zation was granted to all entities to import and export without specific license except for a negative list of items. There is a global quota notified to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) on imports of consumer goods that are subject to license by the Ministry of International Economic Relations and settled in convertible currencies. License is required for imports that are for the account of the settlement of the outstanding bal- ances in transferable or clearing rubles. Importers have an automatic right to purchase foreign exchange through the banking system for all bona fide imports. When applying for foreign exchange, importers have to complete a declara- tion, stating the use of foreign exchange. The NBH conducts a random checking of banks and enter- prises for compliance with the regulations. Commercial banks may enter into deferred pay- ment arrangements on behalf of their clients with- out restrictions for a period of up to one year; arrangements exceeding three months must be reported to the NBH by the client. These arrange- ments need not be secured by bank obligations. For These are arrangements providing for settlements in convert- ible currencies at world market prices, with no official overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HUNGARY deferred payments of over one year, permission from the NBH is required. Export proceeds must be received in officially quoted convertible currencies or Hungarian forint. In the former case, such proceeds must be surren- dered against Hungarian forint to a licensed bank within eight days of receipt of the foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, subject to specific approval by the NBH. There is no limit on the time during which export earnings must be repatriated following the shipment of goods. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to provide the NBH with semiannual reports showing claims out- standing in connection with their export activities. The collection of export contracts exceeding Ft 4 million must be guaranteed either by letter of credit, bank guarantee, or bank collection. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresidents may be deposited in foreign trade accounts with licensed banks but may not be converted into foreign cur- rency. Such proceeds must be used for payments for goods and services acquired in Hungary or for operating expenses of foreign firms or living expenses of persons staying in Hungary. Noncommercial imports by returning Hungar- ian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15 percent based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 5,000. Residents—if they are employees of a domestic agency—may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings if stationed abroad for more than one year. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, secu- rity, and other noneconomic reasons. An export subsidy may be provided for exports of agricultural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies or Hungarian forint. The value-added tax paid on goods exported is refunded. The refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Hungary has negotiated new trade agreements with former CMEA countries based on free market principles and providing for settlements in convert- ible currencies at world market prices, with no offi- cial overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities. As of December 1992, new trade agreements were in effect with Albania, Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Lithuania, Mol- dova, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Viet Nam. At the end of 1993, new trade agreements were in effect with the People's Republic of China, Croatia, Kazakhstan, and Latvia. The Trade Proto- col of the Association Agreement between Hungary and the European Union entered into force on March 1, 1992 with the help of the Interim Agree- ment. The Visegrad agreements (CEFTA) with Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Repub- lic entered into effect in March 1993, and the trade agreement with five European Free Trade Associa- tion (EFTA) countries (Austria, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein) entered into effect in October 1993.3 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Other transactions require general or individual authorization, irrespective of their amount, mostly from the NBH and, in some special cases, from the Ministry of Finance or other competent authority. Foreign exchange for related payments is made available automatically once the underlying transactions have been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or a certain proportion of turnover is given to enter- prises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the NBH or the Ministry of International Economic Relations. Exporters are permitted to spend for business travel a certain portion of export earnings based on the annual value of exports. There are eight per- centage bands, ranging from 50 percent of exports up to Ft 4.9 million, up to 0.7 percent of exports between Ft 400^99.9 million, with a ninth band of 2 percent of exports exceeding Ft 500 million. The limit for importers is 1 percent of convertible cur- rency imports. The minimum allowance is Ft 100,000 (or the amount spent in the previous year) if the entity has an income from exports. Sepa- rate allowances are established for financial institu- tions (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent); municipal councils (the limit applied in 1991 plus 15 percent); parliamentary parties (4 per- cent of the parliamentary allocation); social organi- zations (8 percent of budgetary allocations or 5 percent of receipts from members); package tour 3 See footnote no. 2. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 227 operators and hotels (1 percent of net convertible currency receipts, with a minimum of Ft 100,000); other legal and nonlegal entities (20 days' business travel expense); budgetary institutions and univer- sities (unlimited); and institutions with representa- tives abroad (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent). In addition, these institutions are free to pay for membership and participation fees at conferences, excluding hotel and incidental expenses, which must be covered by separate allowances for business travel. Up to the end of 1991, travel agencies were licensed to use up to 50 percent of the previous year's net convertible income for package tours; since 1992, this limitation has been abolished in favor of a liberalized system of tours through travel agencies (Government Decree No. 4/1992 of January 13,1992). Up to June 1992, foreign exchange allowances for travel were granted to passport holders in convert- ible currencies, subject to an annual limit of $50 a year. For passport holders over 14 years of age, the allowance was available annually or up to the total amount of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of $50 or $100 would have been available in 1992, and would be available in 1993 if the allowances had not been used in 1990 or 1991, respectively. Those travelers who used more than one half of the total allowance available for the three-year period 1988 to 1990 could not receive further allowances in 1991 to 1992. Since July 1, 1992, exchange allowances for tourist travel have been increased by the equivalent of $300 for pass- port holders over 14 years of age and to $150 for those under 14 years of age. Unused amounts of the annual allowances of $300 and $150 cannot be car- ried over to subsequent years. Additional foreign exchange for the purchase of gasoline abroad is available only to travelers who are handicapped. Tickets to Europe and to the Middle East may be bought with forint without limit; tickets for over- seas flights may be bought once a year. Additional allowances for private travel are granted through travel agents. Package tours may be purchased freely in forint, with a daily cash allowance of Ft 500-1,800 with no limit on the number of days. For nonpackage tours purchased through travel agents, travel and hotel expenses, half or full board, and programs can be paid fully in forint, plus the above-mentioned cash allowance with a 14-day annual limit. After returning to Hungary, a traveler must reconvert into forint the convertible currencies he did not spend abroad, with the exception of Ft 5,000 a person, which is generally exempt from the sur- render requirement. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, but to cover their anticipated expenditures while in Hungary, they must have a certain amount of money at their disposal, which is checked at the borders. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. Foreign travelers may take out of the country without restriction all of the articles purchased in Hungary with forint converted from convertible currency; conversion into forint must, however, be verified with presen- tation of records. Since August 1, 1992, residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 10,000 a person (in denominations not exceeding Ft 1,000); the corre- sponding limit for nonresidents is Ft 1,000 a person. Coins made of precious metal may not be taken out of the country at all. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from con- vertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ven- tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enter- prises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their taxed income. Capital Under the new Central Banking Law approved by the Parliament on December 1, 1991, financial institutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Foreign borrowing of other legal entities is subject to the approval of the NBH. Granting cred- its to foreigners by the Hungarian financial institu- tions is in most cases limited to credits with maturities of up to six months. Commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities between nonfinancial legal entities with maturities over one year need authorization. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established without approval, but in the case of banks foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 HUNGARY participation exceeding 10 percent of equity requires government approval. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are exempted from several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign investment. Joint ventures are granted a 60 percent allowance on the profit tax in the first five years of operation and 40 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year, provided the equity capital exceeds Ft 50 million, the foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent, and more than one half of proceeds come from production of goods; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a reduction in the profit tax. Joint ventures in preferred fields of activities are granted 100 percent of profit tax allowance for five years and pay 60 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year. The right to these incentives could be obtained until December 31, 1993. The inputs imported by joint ventures are exempt from cus- toms duties. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the NBH covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungar- ian banking institutions covering the fulfillment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of International Economic Relations. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Gifts (movable property that is in Hungary) from nonresidents to residents in excess of Ft 25,000 a person, and from Hungarian residents to nonresi- dents in excess of Ft 10,000 a person, are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate or other immovable property in Hungary, except through inheritance. Joint ventures can own real estate necessary for their activities without authorization. Outward capital transfers by resident natural persons are not generally approved. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, trans- fers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the approval of the NBH. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country assets valued up to Ft 500,000, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident forint account or deposit. In the case of emigrants, the licenses for transfers of assets are granted by the customs authorities. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the NBH, in concurrence with the com- petent authority if for industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted before 1945, must be offered to the NBH for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically autho- rized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 12. The exchange rate was devalued by 1.9 percent. March 26. The exchange rate was devalued by 2.9 percent. June 1. Margins within which licensed banks are allowed to quote their own rates for transactions in the interbank market outside the official fixing and for their customers were widened from ±0.3 percent to ±0.5 percent. June 7. The exchange rate was devalued by 1.9 percent. July 9. The exchange rate was devalued by 3.0 percent. August 2. The deutsche mark replaced the ECU in the currency basket to which the forint is pegged. September 29. The exchange rate was devalued by 4.5 percent. Administration of Control May 6. Restrictions were imposed on the provi- sion of financial services to the Federal Republic of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 223 Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in accordance with UN Resolution No. 820. Imports and Exports January 1. The quota on consumer goods imports subject to licensing was raised to $750 mil- lion from $720 million, and some items (such as textile products to be covered by the Trade Associ- ation Agreement with the European Union) were removed from the negative import list. March 1. The Visegrad agreements with Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Republic entered into effect.4 October 1. The trade agreement with five EFTA countries (Austria, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein) entered into effect. ^e footnote no. 2. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the external value of which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar, and the European currency unit. On May 28,1993, a new system for setting the exchange rate of the krona was introduced. The daily exchange rate is no longer set unilaterally by the Central Bank of Iceland but is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The partici- pants in the market are the Central Bank, the three commercial banks, and Icebank, the savings banks' loan institution. The margins within which the exchange rate is allowed to fluctuate remained unchanged at ± 2.25 percent around the basket peg. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates were ISK 72.63 and ISK 72.83, respectively, per US$1, the principal trading currency in Iceland. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transac- tions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign exchange markets. A tax is levied on the fees banks charge for transfers of foreign exchange abroad. The tax will be gradually reduced and abol- ished on January 1,1996. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 19,1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce, after consulting with the Central Bank, has ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and foreign exchange regulations. A new foreign exchange act entered into force on November 17, 1992. All foreign exchange transactions, including capital transactions, were made free of restrictions unless explicitly prohibited by provisions of this act or the foreign exchange regulation that came into force on January 1,1993. Export controls are admin- istered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and For- eign Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Iceland notified the Fund on July 31, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in kronur in domestic banks in connection with their activities in Iceland and transfer the balances abroad without limitation. Nonresidents may freely open accounts denominated in foreign currency. Individual banks must notify the Central Bank of the opening of all nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without a license. The main exemptions are live animals and certain agricultural products. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, and alcoholic bever- ages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state trading arrangements. Some fresh vegetables, potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources that require a license, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when it is issued. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit before shipment from abroad but must present import documents to domestic banks to obtain foreign exchange. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and the engine capac- ity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax depending on the alcohol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles Payments for services rendered to residents by nonresidents and the remittance of interest, divi- 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 225 dends, rents, and other forms of income from capi- tal are completely free, but bona fide documents must be submitted to the banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Icelandic bank notes in any denomi- nation that they have legally acquired. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade: The shipping documents must be lodged with a domestic bank, and export proceeds must be surrendered without undue delay. Exporters may deposit business-related for- eign exchange earnings with a domestic or foreign bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commer- cial nature must be surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes in any amount and in any denomination that they have legally acquired. Capital Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regu- lated, in accordance with legislation that entered into force on March 25,1991, as follows: (1) nonresi- dents are free to make investments in Iceland, sub- ject to the conditions laid down in general legislation governing foreign investment or sec- tor-specific legislation; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate pri- mary fish processing; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic citizens, or domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermal energy. The restrictions apply to power production and distribution companies; (4) investment by non- residents in domestic airlines is restricted to 49 per- cent; (5) investment by nonresidents in domestic incorporated commercial banks is restricted to 25 percent, but foreign commercial banks have been allowed to open branches in Iceland since January 1,1992; and (6) total investment by a single nonresident, or by financially linked nonresidents, in excess of ISK 250 million a year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Total investment by nonresidents in any sector is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legisla- tion stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be resident Icelandic citizens. In many cases, the rel- evant minister may grant exceptions to such requirements. A foreign citizen who has been an Icelandic resident for at least one year has the same status as an Icelandic citizen in that respect. The legislation on joint stock companies1 stipu- lates that the majority of founders must reside in Ice- land for at least one year before the company is established. The managing director and the majority of the members of the board of directors of a com- pany that has been established and is operating in Iceland must be residents. However, the Minister of Commerce may grant exceptions to this requirement. Foreign governments, local authorities, and other public authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the Central Bank. The legislation on the ownership and use of real estate2 stipulates that for joint stock companies to own real estate, they must be registered in Iceland, at least 80 percent must be owned by Icelandic citi- zens, and all of the members of the board of direc- tors must be Icelandic citizens or have resided in Iceland for at least five years. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. Residents are allowed to obtain long-term credits for general financing purposes and provide long- term credits to nonresidents. Forward agreements, futures, options, and swaps are free, provided that an underlying international trade or capital transac- tion exists. Short-term borrowing and lending, other than trade credits, are restricted to a maxi- mum of ISK 5 million in 1994. Portfolio investments in long-term securities are not restricted, but transactions by residents in for- eign securities must be through the intermediary of a licensed broker. Investments in short-term foreign securities, both inward and outward, are permitted, up to ISK 1 million for resident individuals and up to ISK 175 million for resident mutual funds. Invest- ments in short-term domestic securities by nonresi- 1 Act No. 32 of May 12,1978. 2Act No. 19 of April 6,1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 ICELAND dents are restricted to ISK 75 million. Residents who have lawfully acquired foreign exchange may maintain accounts with nonresident institutions. Individuals may make outward transfers, such as gifts, of up to ISK 200,000. Nonresidents may freely acquire Icelandic securi- ties and may freely transfer abroad the interest on, and proceeds from the sale of, securities. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland. capital movements were made free of restrictions unless explicitly prohibited by provisions of the act. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The limits on foreign exchange alloca- tions for travel abroad were eliminated. Capital January 1. Limits on outward direct investments and purchases of real estate abroad were abolished. All restrictions on long-term foreign borrowing and lending by residents to nonresidents were removed. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The special tax on the spread between buying and selling rates for foreign exchange trans- actions was abolished. May 28. A new system for setting the exchange rate of the krona was introduced. The daily exchange rate is no longer set unilaterally by the Central Bank but is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The participants in the market are the Cen- tral Bank, the three commercial banks, and Icebank (the savings banks' loan institution). The margin within which the exchange rate is allowed to fluctu- ate remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent around the basket peg. The official exchange rate is fixed in the interbank market every morning, but during the day the banks may vary the exchange rate according to market developments and quote their own exchange rates. June 28. The kr6na was devalued by 7.5 percent against the basket. Administration of Control January 1. A new foreign exchange act entered into force. All foreign exchange transactions and January 1. The tax on the fees banks charge for transfers of foreign currency would be gradually reduced during 1994-95 and abolished in January 1996. The tax rate is 30 percent in 1994 and 15 per- cent in 1995. Capital January 1. All financial restrictions on invest- ments in long-term foreign securities by residents were removed. Investments in short-term foreign securities, both inward and outward, were permit- ted, subject to a limit of ISK 1 million for resident individuals and of ISK 175 million for resident mutual funds. The limit on investments in short-term domestic securities by nonresidents was set at ISK 75 million. All of these limits are to be lifted by January 1, 1995. Short-term foreign bor- rowing and lending by residents to nonresidents, other than trade credits, would be permitted up to a limit of ISK 5 million. (These restrictions are to be lifted by January 1,1995.) The ceiling on deposits of residents with foreign institutions was removed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee, the exchange value of which is determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) purchases spot U.S. dollars from any authorized person at its designated offices or branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. It does not normally purchase spot pounds sterling, deutsche mark, or Japanese yen, and it does not purchase forward any currency. The Reserve Bank sells spot U.S. dollars to any autho- rized person at its designated offices or branches for meeting foreign exchange payments at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate only for the following purposes: (1) debt-ser- vice payments on behalf of the Government of India; (2) as a transitional arrangement for meeting (a) 40 percent of the value of imports under advance licenses, imprest licenses, and replenish- ment licenses for imports of raw materials for exports of gems and jewelry, in accordance with the instructions issued by the central Government, and (b) the full value of imports under Exim Scrips and Import Replenishment Licenses (REP) and other licenses that are treated on par with Exim Scrips. The Reserve Bank does not sell forward any cur- rency to authorized dealers but may enter into swap transactions, under which it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for two to six months. Purchases and sales of U.S. dollars are made by the Reserve Bank in multiples of $5,000, with a mini- mum of $25,000. Exchange rates against other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the U.S. dollar with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase spot and sell spot and forward currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU)1 at rates determined on the basis of the Reserve Bank's reference rate for the rupee in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is calculated with reference to the rates prevailing in the interbank market around noon and the SDR-U.S. dollar rate published by the IMF. Authorized dealers may maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies," that is, foreign currencies that are freely convertible (currencies that the authorities of the countries concerned per- mit to be convertible into major currencies and for which a fairly active market exists for dealings against other major currencies). Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in European currency units (ECUs). Authorized dealers are permitted to deal spot or forward in any permitted currency. Forward pur- chases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. On December 31, 1993, the indicative market rates (average of the buying and selling rates) for telegraphic transfers in the New York market was Rs 31.3687 per US$1; the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for the U.S. dollar was Rs 31.37 per US$1. The Reserve Bank provides swap transactions to authorized dealers under which it purchases spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for two to six months. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the dis- cretion of the ECGC. The Reserve Bank also pur- chases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- tor General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Prescription of Currency Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the Reserve Bank does not deal in Nepalese rupees. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: member countries of the 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA ACU (except Nepal) and the External Group (all other countries). Payments to countries other than the mem- ber countries of the ACU may be made in Indian rupees to the accounts of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency.2 Receipts from countries other than the member countries of the ACU may be obtained in Indian rupees from accounts maintained with an authorized deal in banks situated in any of the countries or in any permitted currency. Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the accounts of banks situated in any country in the group; the accounts must be maintained with an authorized dealer or in any permitted currency. However, spe- cial rules may apply in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. All pay- ments on account of eligible current international transactions between India and other members of the ACU except Nepal are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement, as are transactions effected on a deferred basis with the ACU countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.3 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes with authorized transfers from the nonresi- dent accounts of persons and firms (including 2A11 remittances by nationals of China to any country outside India and all remittances to China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. All non-trade-related transactions with China or nationals of China continue to be prohibited unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank but must obtain approval before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and China, respec- tively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they may also effect certain types of personal remit- tances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remit- tances; remittances for other purposes require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. 3 However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. banks), and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (includ- ing banks) and transfers to nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts. The balances in the accounts of banks may be converted into any permitted cur- rency. All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, bal- ances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during his visit to India, or balances trans- ferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are required to ascertain the bona fide nature of the transaction before crediting the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by the general or special permission of the Reserve Bank, other than for pay- ments toward investments in India. Nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to authorized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary vis- its to India against the tender of foreign currency trav- eler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country other than the members of the ACU. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or foreign currency nonresident accounts (FCNR) is also allowed for bona fide per- sonal purposes, if the transferors and transferees are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 residents of countries other than those in the ACU. The accounts may be debited for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad. Debiting is also permit- ted for any other transaction if covered under the gen- eral or special permission granted by the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and in the case of corporate entities, for the use of directors and employees. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms and the like or in immovable property may be made with the specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from the personal income tax although juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and jurid- ical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the gift tax. Foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian national- ity and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, includ- ing interest. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used for the purposes for which debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Effective May 15,1993, a new FCNR (Banks) Scheme was introduced. It operates in the same manner as the existing FCNR(A), except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) is required to provide the exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident (nonrepayable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominately owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Bang- ladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts, including interest accrued, may not be repatriated abroad at any time. Foreign currency ordinary (nonrepatriable) deposit accounts may be opened by nonresidents. These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited with funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee value of the principal and accrued interest may be credited to the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of the depositor. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Fiji, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. The current export and import policy, which came into effect on April 1,1992 and—with its subsequent amendments—is valid for five years, contains the policy governing imports. Capital goods, raw mate- rials, components, spare parts, accessories, instru- ments, and other goods are freely importable without any restriction by any person whether he is an actual user or not, unless such imports are regu- lated by the negative list of imports. The negative list of imports consists of prohibited items, restricted items, and canalized items. The prohibited items are tallow, fat, and/or oils that are rendered, unrendered, or otherwise of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals (including their parts and products), and ivory. All consumer goods (including consumer dura- bles) except those specifically permitted are restricted and their importation is permitted only against a license. Also the importation of certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; safety, security, and related items; seeds, plants, and animals; insecticides and pesticides; electronic items; drugs and pharmaceuticals; chemicals; items relating to the small-scale sector; and certain other items is restricted. The importation of restricted items is allowed selectively against a license or in accordance with general schemes laid down through public notices for import based on the merit of the applica- tion. The importation of restricted items has been lib- eralized by permitting specified restricted items (including certain consumer goods) to be imported against freely transferable special import licenses that are granted to export houses, trading houses, and manufacturers who have acquired prescribed quality certification on the basis of their foreign exchange earnings. Petroleum products, fertilizers, edible and nonedible oils, seeds, and cereals are can- alized for import through the state trading enter- prises, i.e., Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trad- ing Corporation of India, and the Food Corporation of India. Gold and silver are restricted items included on the negative list of imports. However, the importation of gold up to 5 kilograms is allowed as part of the baggage of passengers of Indian origin or passengers holding a valid passport issued under the Passports Act of 1967 coming to India after stay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA ing abroad for a period of not less than six months and subject to payment of customs duty in convert- ible currency Import licenses are issued with a validity of 12 months; in the case of capital goods imports, they are valid for 24 months. Advance licenses are granted for duty-free imports of raw materials, inter- mediates, components, consumables, parts, accesso- ries, packing materials, and computer software required for direct use in the product to be exported. When a valid import license is held, the required for- eign exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. The contracting of suppliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long-term import credits is subject to prior approval. Payments for imports may generally not be made before shipping documents are submitted, except on goods with import values of up to $2,500. However, in special cases—for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers—the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance pay- ment for a part of the value of the import. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 50 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles Authority has been delegated to authorized deal- ers to approve payments for invisibles and remit- tances up to specified limits. Authority has also been delegated to them to approve remittances for certain purposes, without any limits, subject to cer- tain guidelines. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside per- manently in India may be paid only in foreign cur- rency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance poli- cies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Subject to cer- tain conditions, there are no restrictions on remit- tances of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries whose permanent residence is outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabili- ties in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than those from China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 75 percent of net income. Resident Indian nationals may travel abroad freely without exchange formali- ties. Exchange facilities are, however, available to resident Indian nationals under the Foreign Travel Scheme for travel to countries (other than Bhutan, Nepal, and those covered by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme) once every three calendar years. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the Foreign Travel Scheme is disre- garded; these visits may be combined with those for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business matters and pilgrimages. Resi- dents are entitled to foreign exchange up to $500 or its equivalent provided that they hold round-trip tickets on any carrier. The foreign exchange entitle- ment for children up to the age of 12 is one half the normal adult quota. Travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for any eligible person; for- eign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Malay- sia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Sey- chelles, Singapore, and Sri Lanka is governed by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme, under which resident Indian citizens visiting these neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of $250 a per- son once every three calendar years. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes). The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, in general, pro- hibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations higher than Rs 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 1,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permit- ted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $50 or its equivalent to those going to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresi- dents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 $10,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign cur- rency and taken out. Students going to foreign uni- versities with full bursaries receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to $1,500 a person for set- tling in and for purchasing initial equipment. There is also an allowance of $500 to cover the initial expenses of persons traveling abroad for employ- ment purposes and a travel allowance of $500 for medical checkups and consultations abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Fiji, Iraq, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Border trade (that is, frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of China is not allowed. Goods may be exported without a license, provided that they are not prohibited, restricted through licens- ing, or canalized. Restricted products4 may not be exported unless covered by a valid license issued by the licensing authority concerned. Some exports are prohibited,5 and hides, skins, and leather are subject to export duties; other items, including stone boulders, wheat, and nonbasmatie rice, are subject to minimum prices.6 A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, marine products, pro- cessed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and jute and coir products), receive import duty drawbacks, a refund of the central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists may, with the approval of customs, take out of India articles pur- chased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silver- ware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds from exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. Exporters must declare that the full export 4 The exportation of certain products, including some mineral ores and concentrates, is permitted subject to licensing. 5 These include all forms of wildlife, including their parts and products; exotic birds; all items of wild flora included in Appen- dix I of the convention on International Trade in Endangered Species; beef; human skeletons; tallow, fats and/or oils of any animal origin excluding fish oil; and wood and wood products in the form of logs, timber, stumps, roots, barks, chips, powder, flakes, dust, pulp, and charcoal. With effect from April 1, 1991, wild orchids, chemicals included in Schedule I of the Chemical Weapons Convention of the United Nations, sandalwood excluding some fu l ly finished products, and red sanders wood in any form were included on the prohibited list of exports. 6 Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are per- mitted on a decontrolled basis. proceeds will be received and dealt with in accor- dance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange earnings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer. Exporters and other recipients of foreign exchange are permitted to retain up to 15 percent of receipts in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. Export proceeds must be repa- triated on the due date for payments or within six months of shipment, whichever is earlier, and sur- rendered to authorized dealers unless specifically permitted by general or special permission from the Reserve Bank to retain them either with authorized dealers in India or with banks abroad. In respect of exports made to Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the Reserve Bank, a maximum period of 15 months is allowed for real- ization of export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank through authorized dealers in the event that the export value is not realized within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank also administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and con- sumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the full export value is paid in installments over more than six months. The status of exporters is based on their average gross and average net export earnings in the preced- ing three years, as follows (figures in parenthesis indi- cate minimum average gross and minimum average net export earnings, respectively): export houses (Rs 100 million and Rs 60 million); trading houses (Rs 500 million and 300 million); star trading houses (Rs 2.5 billion and Rs. 1.25 billion); and super star trading houses (Rs 7.5 billion and Rs 4 billion). Exporters are also granted certificate of exports, trad- ing, star trading, or super star trading house status if their net foreign exchange earnings during the pre- ceding licensing year are at Rs 120 million, Rs 600 million, Rs 1,500 million, and Rs 6,000 million, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sold in the interbank market.7 The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring into India Indian 7 Since March 1, 1992, 40 percent of receipts have been required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate, whereas the remaining 60 percent have been allowed to be sold at the free market rate. Fifteen percent of receipts to be surrendered at the free market exchange rate may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. Since March 1,1993,100 percent of receipts have been allowed to be sold at the free market rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 250 a person in Indian cur- rency notes from other countries if they previously took out this amount when leaving India to travel abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of for- eign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent use of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, subject to the maximum of the $500,000 or its equivalent for meet- ing requirements of normal exchange business. They may obtain loans or overdrafts from their overseas branches/correspondents in excess of this limit solely for the purpose of replenishing their rupee resources in India without prior approval from the Reserve Bank; repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the Reserve Bank or may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank or financial institution and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. Persons residing in India may not borrow any for- eign exchange from persons residing inside or outside India without prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured from nonresident persons and companies (including banks) as well as repayment of such loans and credits and payments of interest and other charges on such loans require prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The procedure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by Indian entities envis- ages that borrowing proposals, except when loans are for less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they may be approved by the Reserve Bank. Foreign currency loans on a self-liqui- dation basis contracted by Indian companies having net foreign exchange earnings and carrying a mini- mum maturity period of two years are approved by the Reserve Bank without administrative clearance from the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents, noncitizens, and nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law must have permis- sion from the Reserve Bank to initiate, expand, or con- tinue any business activity in India and to hold or acquire shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India.8 8 Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any pub l ic or p r iva te limited company engaged in any ac t iv i ty except a g r i c u l t u r al or p lan ta t ion activities and real estate business (excluding real estate devel- opment, that is, construction of houses, etc.), or in any part- nership or propr ie tary concern engaged in any ac t iv i ty other than real estate business and ag r icu l tu ral or p lan ta t ion activ- ity, provided that f u n ds for investment are either remitted from abroad th rough normal banking channels or are d rawn from their nonresident accounts, that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the cap i tal invested or the prof i ts and div- idends arising therefrom will not be requested, and th at over- all limits on holdings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership f i rms that are owned to the ex tent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin and overseas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also allowed to invest in any public or p r iva te limited companies in accordance w i th the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies as defined above may use f u n ds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (ex te rna l) or foreign currency (nonresident) accoun ts to (1) make por tfo l io investments, w i th repa tr ia t ion benefits, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the pa id-up capital of the company concerned or (b) 5 percent of the total pa id -up va lue of each series of convertible deben- tures issued by the company concerned. However, if a com- pany so resolves through a General Body Resolution, then purchases of shares or debentures of such a company could be made up to 24 percent as against 5 percent mentioned at (b) above; (2) invest freely in Na t ional Savings Certificates with fu ll repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up indus- trial manu fac tu r ing projects, hospitals ( inc lud ing diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 100 percent of new invest- ments, including expansion of existing indus t r ial unde r tak- ings in specified priority industries listed in Annex III to the Statement on New Industrial Policy w i th free repatriation of such investment. Income f rom the inves tment will also be allowed to be repatriated a f ter deduction of applicable domestic taxes. Nonresident Ind ians and overseas companies as defined above may also place funds w i th public limited companies in India as deposits, w i th f u ll repatriation benefits, provided that (1) the deposits are made for three years, (2) the deposits are made in conformity w i th the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies, and (3) the f u n ds are made available by the depositors through remittances f rom abroad or through pay- ments from their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts. Special tax concessions apply to investments by nonresident Indians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 Foreign Direct Investment in India Before the announcement of the new industrial policy on July 24, 1991, foreign investment in India was being permitted provided that it was accompa- nied by a technology transfer. Foreign direct invest- ments were permitted in industries that required sophisticated technology, industries that were expe- riencing critical production gaps, or industries that could expand their exports. Generally, an equity participation of up to 40 percent was permitted. If the required foreign technology was highly sophis- ticated or the project was predominantly export-ori- ented, a larger foreign equity participation was permitted. The policy relating to foreign investment in free trade zones and export-oriented industrial units was relatively more liberal, and foreign equity up to 100 percent was permitted. Approval for these investments was granted by the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals (SIA) in the Ministry of Industry or, for firms in the free trade zones, by the Ministry of Commerce. On July 24, 1991, a new industrial policy was announced under which industrial licensing, for- eign direct investments, foreign technology agree- ments, and public sector policy were liberalized. In the area of foreign direct investment, the require- ment that such investments must involve transfer of technology was abolished, and the Reserve Bank was authorized to grant automatic approval for investments under certain conditions. Applications for investments in areas that do not fall within the authority of the Reserve Bank but that are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). The Reserve Bank is responsible for approving for- eign investment up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of the Indian companies that are engaged in manufacturing activities in the 35 manufacturing sectors; approval is automatic. The SIA in the Min- istry of Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approvals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) including institutions (e.g., pension funds, mutual funds, investment trusts, asset management companies, nominee companies, and incorporated or institu- tional portfolio managers) are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities and instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs are required to reg- ister initially with the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and with the Reserve Bank. The autho- rization from the Reserve Bank enables FIIs to (1) open accounts denominated in foreign currency; (2) open nonresident rupee accounts for the pur- poses of operating securities investments; (3) trans- fer balances between foreign currency accounts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad repatri- ate capital, capital gains, dividends, and interest income. Portfolio investments in primary or sec- ondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 24 percent of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the excep- tion of (1) foreign investments under financial col- laboration, which are permitted up to 51 percent; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts, and con- vertibles in the Euromarket. Investment in Trading Companies Trading companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of their status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the Reserve Bank of India for remittance or dividends. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. The Reserve Bank is responsible for permitting foreign investment of up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of such Indian companies. A higher percentage is considered for approval by the FIPB and even 100 percent foreign equity may be approved, provided that the funding company is primarily engaged in exports. Increase in Foreign Equity in Existing Companies Foreign equity shares in the existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio to 51 percent of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the for- eign investor. Firms in certain manufacturing industries and tourist industries (hotels, restau- rants, and beach resorts) may increase the equity ratio immediately, while others may increase the equity ratio as part of expansion, provided the expansion is in specified manufacturing or tourist industries. In both cases, the Reserve Bank grants automatic approval. Investment in Power Sector Foreign investment of up to 100 percent in pri- vately owned enterprises in the power sector may be permitted on a case-by-case basis. The condition of dividend balancing by export earnings does not apply to these investments. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 INDIA nonresidents or foreign nationals to residents. However, sales and transfers of shares of Indian companies through stock exchanges in India by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin in favor of Indian citizens or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies in which nonresident interest does not exceed 40 percent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance when the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. The transfer of shares by nonresidents in favor of non- residents, residents, or non-FERA companies does not require clearance from the Reserve Bank, pro- vided that the shares are purchased by the nonresi- dents under the portfolio investment scheme on a repatriation basis and are sold on stock exchanges through the same authorized dealer after a lock-in period of one year. In such cases, the sale proceeds may be credited to NRE or FCNR accounts after deduction of tax or may be remitted abroad. The following capital transactions by residents require approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) hold- ing, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immov- able property outside India (unless acquired while a nonresident of India); (2) exportation of Indian securities and transfers of Indian securities to non- residents; (3) guaranteeing of obligations of a non- resident or of a resident in favor of a nonresident; and (4) association with, or participation in, the capital of any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. How- ever, approval must be obtained from the Reserve Bank before effecting a sale that involves repatria- tion of assets. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no further remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed.9 However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in 9 Since March 1, 1992, foreign exchange allowances at the free market rate have been granted up to $500 a person, or $1,000 a family, to cover initial expenses. India (that is, July 1947, against the former Sterling Area countries, and September 1939 against other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 500,000. Foreign nationals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) and foreign diplomatic persons are permit- ted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 1 million for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 500,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisi- tion, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not permanently residing in India and their for- eign-born wives also not permanently residing in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer initially a sum of Rs 1 million when they leave India perma- nently; thereafter, they are allowed to remit up to Rs 500,000 a year out of capital and income. Trans- fers abroad of legacies, inheritances, and bequests by persons who were never residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, residing abroad, and wishing to return to India are not required to sur- render within three months of their arrival foreign currency assets they acquired lawfully while resid- ing outside India provided they stayed abroad con- tinuously for at least one year. Under the Resident Foreign Currency Account Scheme, Indian nationals (returning permanently to India from abroad) are permitted, within three months of their arrival, to open and operate with- out restriction resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with authorized dealers in India; all foreign exchange transferred from abroad may be credited to these accounts. Gold The Gold Control Act of 1968 was repealed on June 6,1990 by the Gold Control Repeal Act of 1990, which eliminated restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 235 industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohib- ited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. The importation and exportation of gold in any form by residents are regulated by the import pol- icy in force. Authorities require special authoriza- tion from the Reserve Bank. Exporters of gold and silver jewelry may import their essential inputs such as gold, silver mountings, findings, rough gems, precious and semiprecious synthetic stones and unprocessed pearls, etc., with import licenses granted by the licensing authority. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supply, in advance, gold or silver, free of charge, for manufacture and ultimate export of gold or silver jewelry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewelry and Articles Export Pro- motion and Replenishment Scheme, exporters of gold jewelry and articles are entitled for replenish- ment of gold, through the designated branches of the State Bank of India or any other agency nomi- nated by the Ministry of Commerce at a price indi- cated in the certificate issued by the State Bank of India after purchase of gold. The Scheme is limited to exports that are supported by an irrevocable let- ter of credit, payment of cash on a delivery basis, or advance payment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold jewelry may also be allowed on a collection basis (documents against acceptance). The exporter has the option to obtain gold from the State Bank of India in advance. On presentation of required docu- ments, the appropriate release order and gem replenishment license may be issued by the licens- ing authority, provided that the exporters satisfy value-added and other requirements under the Scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exporta- tion, provided that payments for the importation will not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value and jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to cer- tain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The exchange rate system was unified. All foreign exchange transactions would be con- ducted by authorized dealers at market-determined rates. Authorized dealers would not be required to transfer to the Reserve Bank any portion of foreign exchange that was surrendered to them by export- ers of goods and services. April 1. The Reserve Bank ceased to provide exchange rate guarantees on new foreign currency nonresident accounts with a maturity of less than one year. October 1. The Reserve Bank ceased to provide exchange rate guarantees on new foreign currency nonresident accounts with a maturity of less than two years. Imports and Import Payments February 28. The maximum tariff rate was lowered to 85 percent from 110 percent, with a few excep- tions; the tariff rate on machinery was reduced in general to 35 percent, and the rates on a wide range of inputs were also reduced substantially. Payments for Invisibles March 1. The foreign exchange travel allowance for business and education abroad was increased to $5,000 a person a trip. April 10. Authorized dealers were allowed to approve remittances of dividends by all Indian companies irrespective of the size of shareholdings of nonresidents, subject to payment of all taxes. Capital January 1. The Foreign Exchange Regulations were amended to remove a number of restrictions that had applied to foreign investors, and foreign investors would be treated on a par with domestic investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Its exchange value is determined by Bank Indonesia under a system of managed float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions were Rp 2,110 and Rp 2,120 respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined by reference to the cross rates of the U.S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange rates announced by Bank Indonesia apply only to some transactions undertaken at cer- tain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. Purchases and sales of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate announced at 8:00 a.m. This rate is also used for swap transactions and export draft discounts with Bank Indonesia. Spot and for- ward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. From 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally conducted to enable the banks to arrive at their net open position. All transactions between Bank Indonesia and banks may be con- ducted by telephone through the dealing room. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank finan- cial institutions, and licensed money changers. Bank Indonesia trades unlimited amounts of for- eign exchange or rupiah with authorized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Two types of swap facilities are operated by Bank Indonesia: liquidity swaps on the initiative of Bank Indonesia and investment swaps with a maturity of more than two years operated on the initiative of banks. The commercial banks' daily net open position is limited to 20 percent of capital. The net open posi- tion, which includes banks' off-balance sheet accounts, is defined as the net balance between for- eign exchange assets and liabilities after the admin- istrative position is taken into account. Separate limits apply to total exposures, off-balance sheet exposures, and exposures in each currency. A bank whose net open position exceeds the limit is subject to a penalty. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7,1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Policies on for- eign exchange market operations are taken by Bank Indonesia. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia main- tains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. However, if holders of accounts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments 1 Those commonly used in Indonesia's international transac- tions: Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bru- nei dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals may be authorized as import- ers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Although all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 237 license (also called General the nonresident Importer License). Imports from Angola, Israel, South Africa, and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of cer- tain products. In addition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry in accor- dance with the guidelines of the Ministries of Trade and of Industry. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including different categories of food, bev- erages, and fruits, may be imported only by regis- tered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bev- erages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restric- tions are not placed on these products. Since mid-1985, import controls on several prod- uct categories (e.g., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agricultural products) have been progressively removed. Controls remain on about 12 percent of total imports. Imports of cer- tain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. For example, Pertamina has a monopoly over the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and FT Dahana, over the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar, but its monopoly on maize imports was revoked in September 1989 and that on soybean meal in June 1991. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importa- tion of certain heavy equipment and motor vehi- cles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is sub- ject to restriction. Certaih products are granted pref- erential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by agen- cies designated by the Government of Indonesia; inspection expenses are borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspection, the headquar- ters of the agency in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the exporting country a sur- vey report (LPS) specifying the type, quality, quan- tity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value-added taxes; LPS must be sent by the agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened let- ters of credit or, for imports not covered by letters of credit, to the bank designated by the importer. After paying duties based on the price fixed by the agency and taxes, the importer presents all import documents to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LPS, except those that are valued at less than $5,000 or are sus- pected to be illegally imported. Imports for foreign capital investment and domestic capital investment must have an LPS. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry bat- teries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Angola, Israel, South Africa, and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits, which are issued by the Min- istry of Trade. Certain producer-exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Quality controls are also maintained on certain products, including fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to suspension of exports of various items in this category. In 1990, producer-exporters of cement and clinkers were allowed to export these products with the approval of the Ministry of Trade as shortages developed on the domestic market. Several categories of gold and silver may be exported only by exporters who pos- sess certification from PTAneka Tambang and authorization from the Ministry of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. How- ever, manioc (cassava) may be exported only by approved exporters. As of November 1, 1989, pep- per is exempt from certain previous export restric- tions and may henceforth be exported by all companies possessing a trade permit. Exports of 2 Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fer- tilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 INDONESIA nutmeg and mace, cassiavera, tengkowang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from North Sumatra have been liberalized since May 1990. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be exported only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commod- ity Exchange Board. All exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Exports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be made only by approved exporters. In 1992, bans on log exports were replaced with export taxes. A min- imum price of $250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber, and export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are imposed on these products. Although export taxes on raw logs range from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter, certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, panels, and molding are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes; these range from 5 percent to 30 percent (the tax rate on leather products is 20 percent, and the tax rates on rattan are $14-$15 a kilogram). For all goods subject to the export tax and the export surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Promis- sory notes may be settled in three ways. Exports without a letter of credit should be settled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. Exports using con- signment and usance letters of credit should be set- tled not later than 90 days from the date of export registration. Exports with sight letters of credit con- ditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Since October 1989, the special permit for export- ing coffee, which was formerly allowed only from certain provinces, has been eliminated, and ship- ments have been allowed from all provinces. This decision was made in light of the suspension of cof- fee export quotas by the International Coffee Orga- nization (ICO). In January 1990, subsidized export credits were removed completely. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There are no sur- render or repatriation requirements for export pro- ceeds. In the calculation of export taxes on the principal commodities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indica- tive" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer-exporters to obtain their imported inputs,at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import- tariffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by nontar- iff barriers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 (Malaysian ringgit) for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether transported overland or by sea. For the Phil- ippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of $150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel or $1,500 if transported by smaller boat. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government may require all foreign firms bidding for govern- ment-sponsored construction or procurement projects, whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a coun- terpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must submit with their bids a letter in which they agree to pur- chase and export the equivalent of the contract's f.o.b. value in selected Indonesian products during the life of the contract.4 Goods that may be used to meet the counterpurchase requirement include agricultural products, and manufactured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either 3 Under this scheme, exporters are classified as pro- ducer-exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total production) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 percent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Producer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post doc- umentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a du ty drawback facility. 4 The following are exempt from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing derived from soft loans and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes or duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, consultants' services, purchases of technology (patents), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 239 directly or through a third party, possibly from another country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionality"; that is, the counter- purchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas purchased under countertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations must be completed at the end of such a purchasing contract. If, when the project is completed or the purchase is implemented (govern- ment import) the exportation from Indonesia has not yet been completed, a penalty amounting to 50 percent of the export value will be imposed on the responsible party (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to control. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indone- sian notes and coins other than gold and silver commemorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Incentives for foreign direct investments include an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxiliary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal purposes on virtually all machinery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive pref- erential customs duty treatment for imported raw materials they need for the first two years of pro- duction activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re-entry permits for six months and are exempt from the Rp 25,000 departure tax. Full foreign ownership in foreign direct invest- ments is allowed in certain sectors if the invest- ments meet certain criteria. In general, foreign direct investment must be undertaken with a mini- mum capital of $1 million, but in certain instances, investment with a minimum capital of $250,000 may be allowed (since April 16, 1992). Foreign investors may reinvest profits in the shares of other foreign firms (since April 16, 1992). Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obli- gations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relat- ing to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatria- tion as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. Foreign ownership of direct investment must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of produc- tion. For large investments (above $50 million), divestment of 51 percent must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and non- bank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indone- sia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A reserve requirement of 2 percent is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or pri- vate companies. As of November 1991, banks' short-term foreign exchange liabilities may not exceed 30 percent of their own capital, and they are required to allocate at least 80 percent of all foreign exchange credits to export-oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. A Debt Management Team (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic port- folios, and the Governor of Bank Indonesia), estab- lished in September 1991, supervises all foreign loan transactions. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, state bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. There are also limits on the total foreign borrowings of private banks, but these limits do not apply to private enterprises. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in foreign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petro- leum Law of 1960. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 Gold INDONESIA Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement November 1. The exchange rate in Bank Indone- sia's daily squaring session in the afternoon was allowed to deviate from the indicative rate posted in the morning by Rp 2 a day (previously, the devia- tion was allowed up to Rp 1 a day). Imports and Import Payments June 10. Import bans on vehicles were replaced with tariffs, the tariff on soybean meal was elimi- nated, and the tariffs on other items were reduced. The number of items subject to restrictive import-licensing requirements was reduced to 430 from 470, while tariffs were lowered on 221 items (mostly machinery, equipment, paper, and paper products), generally by 5 percent. October 23. Tariffs and nontariff barriers (particu- larly in the steel sector) were reduced, and the duty exemption scheme was simplified to enable export- ers to have better access to the scheme. Exports and Export Proceeds June 10. The regulations governing exports from export-processing zones were streamlined, includ- ing abolishment of the preshipment inspection on imports into these zones. Capital June 10. Restrictions on foreign direct investment were relaxed, by reducing the number of sectors closed to foreign investment and reclassifying sec- tors to fall under less stringent bans. October 23. Requirements on foreign direct invest- ment, in particular on land-use rights and environ- mental standards, were liberalized. In addition, divestiture requirements were relaxed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial. The Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) announces daily the exchange rate on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange markets. However, the central bank may announce buying and selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when nec- essary to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange markets. On December 31,1993, the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free exchange market were Rls 1,748 and Rls 1,750 respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions other than those permitted through the free exchange market must take place through Bank Markazi or authorized banks. Imports and exports are gov- erned by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval from the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs).1 Final settlements, when necessary, take place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. The Islamic Republic of Iran does not maintain operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on rial accounts may be used only in the lrThe member countries of the ACU are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Islamic Republic of Iran. Foreign nationals and Ira- nian nonresidents may also .maintain rial and for- eign exchange accounts with branches of Iranian banks in the Persian Gulf region. Imports and Import Payments All imports in the Islamic Republic of Iran must be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce before they are registered with the authorized banks, with the exception of special military and pharmaceuti- cal goods and souvenirs and gifts brought in by incoming travelers. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Import policy is re-examined at the end of each Iranian calendar year (March 20), and regulations to take effect in the following year are published by the Ministry of Commerce. Goods are classified into authorized, unauthorized, and prohibited catego- ries. The importation of authorized goods is not restricted. The importation of unauthorized goods may be either temporarily prohibited or permitted after fulfillment of certain requirements. Goods in the prohibited category may not be imported. The registration deposit is replaced by advance import payments in the range of 15-100 percent. Most imports are subject to the commercial bene- fit tax, which is either specific or ad valorem and is imposed in addition to any applicable customs duties. Monopoly taxes, when applicable, are included in the commercial benefit tax; the rate of this tax is specified each year in the export-import regulations. Clearance of goods through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping docu- ments endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the Ministry of Commerce (these permits may be issued when letters of credit are opened and need not be reissued). Certain goods, such as pharmaceuticals and imports by the Minis- try of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special permit when they are cleared through customs. Payments for imports made with foreign currency must be accompanied by evidence that the currency was obtained from Iranian banks before goods may be released from customs. Letters of credit may be opened in terms of Iranian rials for goods transported from ACU member countries. The limit on the amount of 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN goods that an incoming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the trade regulations. When goods for which import letters of credit have been opened are being transported, priority must be accorded to Iranian carriers (air, land, or sea). Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance may be effected by the Central Insurance Company of Iran, Iran Insurance Company, Asia Insurance Company, or Alborz Insurance Company through their respective foreign exchange accounts at the official rate. All Iranian insurance companies may issue insurance contracts denominated in foreign curren- cies for imports, but only Iran Insurance Company may issue war risk insurance in foreign currency. Income in rials derived from ticket sales by foreign airline companies located in Iran may be trans- ferred at the official exchange rate. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange at the official exchange rate up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health. Foreign exchange allow- ances to study abroad are provided by the Ministry of Higher Education. The amount of the allowance varies according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to maximum of $1,470 a month; an additional allowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance may be approved for the spouse and for each child, respectively. When this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, addi- tional amounts may be approved. Iranian nationals traveling abroad may purchase $3,000 per passport from the banking system. Each traveler may export up to $5,000. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of foreign exchange. There are no restrictions on transfers abroad of profits and dividends on foreign direct investment at the official exchange rate. Foreign nationals whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit at the official exchange rate up to 30 percent of their net salaries with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign exchange from foreign currency-denominated accounts originating abroad may be transferred by natural persons without restriction. Travelers leaving or arriving in the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 200,000 in Iranian bank notes, but they may import or export any amount of Iranian bank notes through foreign branches of Iranian banks. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee of Rls 50,000 for the first trip and Rls 100,000 for each successive trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products must be made in accordance with relevant regulations. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of non-oil products (other than subsidized goods) are not subject to limitation; the only requirement is that authorization be obtained from the Ministry of Com- merce for statistical purposes. Exporters of non-oil products may sell foreign exchange proceeds to com- mercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Iranian nationals may retain their foreign exchange earnings in foreign currency accounts with the authorized banks. Natural and juridical persons, either Iranian or foreign nationalities, are permitted to sell foreign exchange without restriction to the banking system at the official exchange rate. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital Foreign direct investments originally brought into the country under the Law Concerning the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Invest- ments in Iran are supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assis- tance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Repatriation of capital may be effected with the approval of this organization and Bank Markazi and in accordance with this law. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. Authority to export or import gold for mone- tary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. The exportation of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots, coins, or semifinished products may be undertaken only by Bank Markazi. Authorized banks, as well as natural and juridical persons, may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for com- mercial purposes in accordance with the relevant regulations. Travelers may import and export jew- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 243 elry valued at up to Rls 5 million provided that it is recorded on the passport; the importation of jew- elry whose value exceeds this amount requires approval from Bank Markazi. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from Bank Markazi. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 21. The competitive and floating exchange rates were abolished; Bank Markazi would announce daily the official exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 per US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1993 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also offi- cially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with autho- rized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this author- ity has been delegated to the governor and his dep- uty, who act on recommendations submitted by the Advisory Committee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor. Branches of the Rafid- ain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed deal- ers. The Ministry of Trade formulates import policy and the annual program. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained origi- nally through credits in any one of the listed cur- rencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Residents and nonresidents of Iraqi and Arab nationality are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts without restriction, pro- vided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank notes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect to capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, for- eign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domes- tic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These exemptions apply to new projects that are contracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, has ceased to be effective, except that its provisions continue to apply to projects that were contracted before Resolu- tion No. 767 took effect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license except in some instances, when reference must be made to 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 245 the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign exchange obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c & f. basis, insurance premiums, roy- alties, and the like. Exchange is not granted to mer- chants to purchase insurance abroad for their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are Arab nationals and employed by the Ministry of Higher Education and of scientific researchers and medical doctors in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is insured and is working in the private sector. Skilled noncontractual workers employed in the national- ized sector by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The basic allowance for travel to Arab and social- ist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the coun- try of their residence, except for certain countries (such as India, socialist countries, and North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance in traveler's checks. Res- idents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for personal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimages are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohib- ited. The Ministry of Trade may prohibit the expor- tation of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters of 13 goods manufac- tured by firms in the public sector must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to surrender them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. An export subsidy fund was established in 1969 for the purpose of promoting non-oil exports by providing financial incentives to eligible exporters. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency) in unlimited amounts, pro- vided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. The importation of Iraqi bank notes by travelers is lim- ited to ID 1,000. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel and South Africa, but must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank. Deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sec- tor companies, but citizens of Arab states may par- ticipate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural services, and tourism sectors. All trans- fers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may transfer ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 IRAQ foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 50,000 a year in three installments to cover personal expenses inside the country. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab nationals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital participation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enter- prise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be distrib- uted to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of their paid-in capital; and (3) Arab nationals to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investment purposes in accordance with certain regulations; such inflows are treated as working capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 (dated October 10, 1987), Iraqi residents, nonresidents, or foreigners may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, pro- vided that they declare it upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declara- tion; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 32,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ire- land participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units.1 The agreement commits the Central Bank of Ire- land to buy or sell the currencies of the other partic- ipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 100 ,000 ,000 1 1 Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 2.33503 12.62610 48.16960 14.35990 42.74390 4.86881 6.08731 1.73176 9.36403 35.71430 10.6500 31.70070 3.61092 4.51462 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 31, 1993, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $1.4066 per £Ir 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control No exchange controls are in effect in Ireland. 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Import licenses, when necessary, are issued by the Department of Tourism and Trade for industrial goods and by the Department of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry for agricultural goods; import licenses are also issued in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144~(52/51) adopted on August 14,1952, Ireland notified the IMF on July 21,1992 that, in com- pliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Ireland introduced restrictions in respect of Haiti on November 30,1993 in accordance with UN Secu- rity Control Resolution No. 841 of 1993. Restrictions were also introduced in respect of Libya on December 23,1993 in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 of 1993. The restriction on the circulation of South African gold coins was removed on January 1,1993. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain deposits in Irish pounds without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-European Union (EU) countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EU may be subject to various charges, such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs tariff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (for example, specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited with- out special licenses. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 IRELAND Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not regulated. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Gold coins minted after 1960 that originate in the Repub- lic of South Africa. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The intervention threshold of the Irish pound in the ERM of the EMS was widened tempo- rarily from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rate, which remained unchanged. Administration of Control January 1. All remaining exchange controls were abolished. Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. In accordance with a reg- ulation of the EU Council dated October 27, 1986, Ireland does not permit the free circulation of gold Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 32,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural New Sheqalim). Its exchange rate is defined in rela- tion to a currency basket consisting of the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a range of 5 percent above and below the midpoint rate in response to market forces and intervention policy. Since December 17, 1991, both the midpoint and the band have been adjusted gradually at a daily rate ("slope" of the band) that reflects the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected infla- tion in the main trading partners. The current slope of the band, set as of July 26,1993, is 6 percent on an annual basis. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate of the new sheqeJ in terms of the U.S. doJJar was NIS 2.9860 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in futures and options, including traded contracts, on foreign currencies, foreign interest rates, commodities, and securities prices are allowed. However, a juridical person may only enter such contracts in order to cover commercial risks arising from permitted transactions; transactions in commodities may only be entered into in order to cover risks; and transac- tions, other than in traded contracts, must be done against an authorized dealer bank, or, through it, against a foreign bank or broker. Israel formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies and is carried out through autho- rized banks that are permitted to deal in foreign exchange; other institutions (e.g., securities brokers and foreign exchange dealers) possess, or may obtain, a limited license to deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. Account holders may freely effect transfers from their for- eign currency account and may also convert funds held on the account into local currency at the mar- ket exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of con- vertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds on these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, including for transfers between non- residents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are two main types of foreign currency accounts that Israeli residents may hold: (1) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). Export proceeds and unilateral transfers directly received from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 8 percent for a cur- rent account and 4 percent for a time deposit account. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These accounts may be held only by recipients of restitution payments or certain disability pensions. The liquidity require- ment for these accounts was 61.5 percent on December 31,1993 (it has been gradually and auto- matically reduced at a fixed monthly rate since November 1991 when the rate was 90 percent). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax-free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for additional travel allowance. (2) Exempt resident deposit accounts. Certain resi- dents (mostly immigrants) may deposit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Certain reg- ulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. In addition, a resident may open a deposit account linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than three months. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 ISRAEL Imports and Import Payments With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. The importation of meat is sub- ject to government procurement. Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant docu- ments (import documents, bills of lading, and let- ters of credit) are presented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of sup- pliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year are allowed. A value-added tax of 17 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegetables. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on account of invisibles, including tourism expenses, is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel, in addition to any payment made from Israel, is the equivalent of $3,000 a person for each journey. The business travel allowance is $200 a day, up to a maximum of $5,000 a trip (in addition to the standard tourist travel allowance of $3,000). The allowance may be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, and banker's checks, or may be used with credit cards (i.e., foreign exchange use by means of credit cards is included in the travel allowance). Residents may make support or gift remittances abroad of up to $2,000 a year. The exchange allowance for students studying at insti- tutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. Foreign exchange in excess of the above-mentioned amounts is provided on submission of documen- tary proof of need. A resident going abroad for medical treatment who requires hospitalization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, he is permitted to pay the remainder of expenses. Additional payments may be authorized on request. Residents, while in Israel, are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, of up to $1,500 a year. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are per- mitted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 for a person over 18 years and of $2,000 for a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. Requests for any additional amount will be approved upon submission of the necessary documents. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of profits and dividends from foreign direct investment are permitted after local taxes are paid. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and defense equipment to, and signing of defense contracts with, South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of export; they may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to authorized banks. However, exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year and use the funds to pay for imports and make other authorized payments abroad. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in gen- eral, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist ser- vices and commodities other than securities and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There is no limit on the amount of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 251 Capital Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real estate, traded securities, and units of mutual trust funds in Israel. To repatriate the principal on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an autho- rized bank that these were purchased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans from nonresidents to Israeli residents are not restricted. Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of equity capital or shareholders' loans may be granted pref- erential tax treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment. Capital transfers abroad by residents, other than those by new immigrants of funds they brought in, require a special permit from the Controller of For- eign Exchange. Any active incorporated Israeli firm that is contemplating investment abroad is nor- mally granted such a permit for up to 40 percent of own funds. Emigrants are permitted to transfer abroad up to the equivalent of $4,000 a year of their Israeli assets. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents; if col- lateral is required, it has to be convertible into for- eign currency. Individual residents may buy foreign securities traded abroad, provided that the securi- ties are held in a safe-keeping deposit with an authorized dealer. Israeli mutual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in foreign currency investments). Resident exporters and airline and shipping com- panies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years; otherwise, residents are not normally permit- ted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or income from these assets. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets must be surrendered. Gold Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The 4 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange to residents for purposes of tourism and for transfers abroad was abolished. April 1. The maximum compensation provided under the Export Insurance Facility for exchange rate risks was reduced to 2 percent of the value added. September 1. The Export Insurance Facility for exchange rate risks was abolished. September 21. Israel formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rate of the value-added tax levied on all imported and domestically produced goods was reduced to 17 percent from 18 percent. July 27. The 2 percent levy on imports of goods was abolished. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The tax of NIS 250 on travel abroad by residents was abolished. Capital April 29. All nonresident heirs, irrespective of their domicile, were allowed to transfer inherit- ances abroad. November 1. Nonresidents were allowed to deposit in nonresident accounts all incomes received from Israeli securities and real estate even if these were purchased from sources other than nonresident accounts. Gold April 19. Residents were allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates would be treated as foreign securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira.1 The Ital- ian authorities generally do not intervene in the exchange market, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are monitored every working day by the Bank of Italy exclusively for informational purposes. On December 31, 1993, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,703.97 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with foreign counterparts. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, the Postal Administration) or directly, that is, by drawing on external accounts, or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. In case of material delivery of means of payment in Italy or abroad, Italian residents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country Italian or foreign bank notes and bearer securities of any denomina- tion up to the equivalent of Lit 20 million. For fiscal and anti-money laundering purposes, transfers exceeding this amount must be carried out through authorized intermediaries. Residents are allowed to enter and leave the country carrying securities 1 With effect from September 17,1992, Italy withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. denominated in lire or in foreign currencies worth Lit 20 million, provided that they are not bearer securities and that they are declared to customs. Nonresidents may take up to Lit 20 million in bank notes and securities of any denomination into and out of Italy without formalities. If they bring in bank notes and securities in an amount in excess of Lit 20 million, they must declare the excess amount to customs on a special form upon entering Italy. Nonresidents may re-export larger sums but only up to the amount in excess of Lit 20 million that they have imported and declared. No limit applies to exports of other securities; nonresidents need only submit the above-mentioned form to customs. The limitations described above do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or beneficiaries. However, banks are also obliged to declare their transfers by filling out a special cus- toms form. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC)) on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return (Comunicazione valutaria statistical In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Italy notified the Fund on August 28, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).3 Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with autho- rized banks in lire and in foreign exchange, which 3 Similar restrictions were applied against Haiti, Libya, and the movement UNITA in Angola toward the end of 1993. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 253 may be freely debited and credited upon their request. Imports and Import Payments4 Imports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14,1990 and Decree No. 68 of October 30,1990, both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (EU countries), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries asso- ciated with the EU), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises most of the Eastern Euro- pean countries, China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam; and ZoneC (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be imported without quantitative restrictions and those that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3 and for some countries of Zones B and C. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EU are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, with- out prejudice to the general rules cited in the sec- tion on Administration of Control. Domestic and foreign bank notes up to Lit 20 million or its equiva- lent exported across the border by residents are free of restrictions. Exports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes and according to the regulations on money laundering. Exports and Export Proceeds decree of October 19, 1992. The decree liberalized exports to non-EU countries, with the exception of high-technology products included in the ministe- rial decrees of June 24, 1993 and of oil and gas extracted from the seabed, which are subject to min- isterial authorization. Receipts from exports are subject to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts from invisi- bles, without prejudice to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Capital Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investments and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Resi- dents and nonresidents are subject to the general regulations described in the section on Administra- tion of Control. Gold Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, includ- ing coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are free. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value-added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 12. The fixing of official exchange rates in the stock exchange was abolished by law, and alter- native exchange rates were defined for informa- tional purposes, monitored every working day by the Bank of Italy. Since the inception of the Single European Mar- ket, exports have been regulated by a ministerial Administration of Control 4At the beginning of 1994, the European Union (EU) estab- lished a common regulation of imports in place of national rules. November 18. An embargo against Haiti and the UNITA in Angola was enacted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 841 of June 16, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 ITALY 1993, No. 873 of October 13, 1993, No. 875 of October 18,1993, and No. 864 of September 15,1993. October 18. An embargo against Libya was enacted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 of November 11,1993. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. The Jamaican authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the spot and forward exchange rates are determined by sup- ply and demand conditions in the interbank mar- ket. On December 31,1993, the average spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were JS32.2487 and J$32.7002, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Foreign exchange bureaus function as points of collection, and they are required to sell all the foreign exchange they purchase to the commercial banks and other autho- rized dealers. Proceeds from official loans, divest- ment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector are sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica. While there is no restriction on transac- tions in any currency, the principal foreign curren- cies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar (trade in other curren- cies is optional and negotiable between participat- ing banks). While the Bank of Jamaica is primarily responsi- ble for payments of obligations on government imports of goods and services and official debt, the public entities are free to conduct their own foreign exchange transactions. Since the amounts sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica from the sources indicated above are insufficient to meet the pay- ments it must make, the Bank of Jamaica purchases its additional requirement from the foreign exchange market at the prevailing rate. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system and other authorized dealers. The commercial banks also han- dle most service payments. On November 1,1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in con- sultation with the other central banks in the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), suspended clearing arrangements within the framework of CARICOM. The Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM pri- vate sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. The commercial banks and other authorized dealers may engage in forward operations without restriction, and all proceeds, except those that must be surrendered directly to the Bank of Jamaica, may be sold on the forward exchange market at rates negotiated with customers. While the Bank of Jamaica does not regulate the forward market, there is an understanding that it maintains a combined long position on spot and forward contracts equiva- lent to 20 percent of the average daily purchases for each bank over a specified period. Amounts in excess of the prescribed long position are offered for sale to another commercial bank or to the Bank of Jamaica by noon of the following day. There is also an implied limit on the short position on for- ward contracts equivalent to 10 percent of the aver- age daily forward purchases for each bank over a specified period. The Bank of Jamaica reserves the right to participate in the forward market. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 22,1963. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act previously adminis- tered by the Bank of Jamaica on behalf of the Minis- ter of Finance was repealed on August 17,1992. The provision regarding prohibition of trading in for- eign exchange, except by and through an autho- rized dealer, was incorporated in the Bank of Jamaica Act. The Minister of Finance, however, retains the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of for- eign currency. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an external account or a for- eign currency account.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. *A11 currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 Foreign Currency Accounts JAMAICA Authorized dealers are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for residents and nonresidents. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. External accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Autho- rized dealers are allowed to hold, for residents and nonresidents, former "A" accounts in foreign cur- rency and "B" accounts in Jamaica dollars with exemption from tax on all deposits, provided that no new deposits were made in such accounts after September 22,1991 and that, in the case of B accounts, deposits are held as certificates of depos- its with at least one year maturity. Before September 25, 1991, accounts that were credited mainly by proceeds of sales of properties owned by emigrants and not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and pro- ceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) were designated as blocked accounts. Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, no new accounts were opened after September 25, 1991. A timetable was estab- lished for the phasing out of existing accounts, and effective April 1, 1992, all remaining balances in blocked accounts became freely convertible. Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, Haiti are prohib- ited. Import licenses are required for pharmaceuti- cal products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Since June 1991, imports of motor vehi- cles have not required a license, but a permit is required for government statistical purposes. Pay- ments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports are subject to customs tariffs in compli- ance with the Common External Tariff (CET) Arrangement of CARICOM. The member countries of CARICOM have agreed (in October 1992) on a phased reduction in the level and dispersion of the regional CET over the next five years. As a result, the range of import tariff rates in Jamaica was changed from 0-45 percent to 5-30 percent, effec- tive April 1, 1993, to 0-30 percent effective April 1, 1994, and will eventually be reduced to 0-20 per- cent by the end of 1996. Some agricultural products will remain subject to a stamp duty at a rate of up to 95 percent, and these will be reduced over a three- year period to be consistent with the CET. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.2 However, specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, fire- arms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other authorized dealers provide foreign exchange for most service transac- tions, including business and other travel, insur- ance, commissions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange refunds, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved, net of taxes, without restriction, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. All proceeds from invisibles may be used in transactions in the foreign exchange market with- out restriction. Capital As of September 25, 1991, all capital flows (both inflows and outflows) became free of restrictions except transfers abroad of balances on blocked accounts of emigrants, which were allowed from April 1,1992. Domestic financial institutions (such as life insur- ance companies, commercial banks, trust compa- nies, finance houses, building societies, unit trusts, pension funds, credit unions, and other organiza- tions that are repositories for domestic financial savings) are required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. 2 This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Haiti, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, South Africa, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require a specific license. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to Haiti and South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 257 In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain foreign com- mercial bank debts to Jamaica into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation was prohibited for three years. Capital repatriation was also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. exception, residents, other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The range of import tariff rates was changed to 5-30 percent from (Mt5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the mar- kets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank rate for the U.S. dollar in the New York market on December 31,1993 was ¥ 111.85 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their customers, with nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major inter- national foreign exchange markets. There are no offi- cially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 1,1964. Administration of Control The exchange and trade control system is oper- ated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Minis- try of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requirements are han- dled by the MITI. With effect from January 1, 1992, inward direct investments have to be reported to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate min- isters after such investments take place in accor- dance with the amendment of the law enacted in April 1991. Outward direct investments require prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. On March 18,1991, restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to persons within the territory of Kuwait, which were imposed in August 1990, were lifted. Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or pay- ments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made freely, with the exception of specifically restricted items or items from desig- nated countries. The Import Restriction System cov- ers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authoriza- tion from the MITI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importa- tion of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Imports from Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Iraq, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya require permission from the MITI. For transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Haiti, Iraq, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya or by residents of these countries to for- eign countries through Japan, permission from the Minister of Finance is required. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola and Haiti requires permission from the MITI. All other payments for invisibles from Japan to resi- dents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 259 and Montenegro), Haiti, Iraq, and Libya require permission from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open accounts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of shipment) require authori- zation from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) that are valued at more than ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made with- out limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in con- nection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic bank notes exceeding ¥ 5 million requires ministerial approval. Intermediating businesses involving Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and Iraq require permission from the MITI. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the For- eign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export vol- ume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1993, voluntary restraints were applied to exports of certain textile items to the United States and the European Union (EU), to exports of passen- ger cars to the United States, and to exports of fork- lift trucks to the EU. In addition, exports of some other products, including passenger cars, light com- mercial vehicles, and videocassette recorders to the EU, were subject to monitoring by the Government. At the end of 1993, 27 export cartels were operat- ing under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were sub- ject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exporta- tion to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settle- ments are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Exports to Croatia and Bosnia-Herzego- vina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Iraq, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya require permission from the MITI. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may freely bring in any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Intermediating busi- ness related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or Iraq and other countries and exports of services to the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene- gro) or Iraq require permission from the MITI. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Ministry of Finance or the MITI may request or order that the transaction be sus- pended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice with- out a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. How- ever, acquisition of such securities through securi- ties firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice with- out a waiting period. Under emergency conditions, however, most capital transactions that are not sub- ject to prior approval in normal conditions may be made subject to prior approval. Emergency condi- tions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments diffi- cult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or estab- lishment of branch operations, investments that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 JAPAN come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individ- ual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) that reach 10 per- cent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign ownership is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minis- ter or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law governing foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign inves- tors are required to report only after undertaking investment unless national security interest is involved except for four industries reserved under the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Move- ments (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum, and leather and leather products); this exception became effective on January 1,1992. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the Minis- ter of Finance if, in the Minister's opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing, (2) domestic and financial capital mar- kets, (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consid- eration is deemed harmless. Other transactions by nonresidents may generally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by residents, borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan, and issuance of yen-denominated bonds abroad by nonresidents may require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may nor- mally be carried out freely. Issuance of securities or bonds by residents abroad and of foreign cur- rency-denominated securities or bonds by residents in Japan requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrow- ers of their choice and may accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents. Foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents and residents are subject to minimum reserve requirements adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan sub- ject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. Financial institutions apply the following pru- dential guidelines to capital transactions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds equivalent to 20 percent of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents; (4) a ceiling on for- eign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceil- ing was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institutional account, and the ceiling for for- eign-affiliated companies was raised to 70 percent); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit coopera- tives in foreign currency-denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in for- eign currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by resident individuals and corporations with a maturity of less than two years and exceeding ¥ 30 million and up to the equivalent of ¥ 100 million are subject to automatic prior approval from the Bank of Japan; overseas deposits up to the equivalent of ¥ 30 million are not restricted. Qualified Japanese ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 261 enterprises in insurance, transportation, and securi- ties are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The importation and expor- tation of gold bullion are free from licensing. Exter- nal futures in gold may be freely traded by designated companies. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The import tariff on beef was reduced to 50 percent from 60 percent. May 1. Imports from Croatia and Bosnia-Herze- govina became subject to permission from the MITI. Transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina or by residents of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina to for- eign countries through Japan became subject to per- mission from the Ministry of Finance. June 30. Transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of Haiti or by residents of Haiti to foreign countries through Japan became subject to permission from the Ministry of Finance. June 30. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Haiti became subject to per- mission from the MITI. October 1. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola became subject to permission from the MITI. December 6. Imports from the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya became subject to permis- sion from the MITI. For transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya or by residents of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to foreign countries through Japan, the Ministry of Finance requires licenses. Payments for Invisibles May 1. Intermediary businesses related to trade between Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and other countries became subject to permission from the MITI. July 4. Payments for trade-related invisibles to Haiti became subject to permission from the MITI. December 6. Payments for trade-related invisibles to the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya became subject to permission from the MITI. Exports and Export Proceeds May 1. Exports to Croatia and Bosnia-Herzego- vina became subject to permission from the MITI. December 6. Exports of petroleum-related machin- eries used in the petroleum industry to the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya became subject to approval from the MITI. December 31. Voluntary restraints on exports of machine tools to the United States were terminated. Proceeds from Invisibles December 6. Service transactions related to the production, maintenance, and repair of airplanes and the maintenance and repair of airports became subject to permission from the MITI. Capital December 6. Direct investment in and loans to res- idents of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jama- hiriya became subject to prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. Other capital transactions, for which the MITI is responsible, with the Socialist People's Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya became subject to prior notice to the MITI. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. Its exchange rate is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to the basket of five currencies that consti- tute the SDR, with the weights determined by their relative importance to Jordan's international trans- actions. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Jordan (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were JD 0.703 and JD 0.705, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the central bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of govern- ment departments and certain other approved insti- tutions. Authorized banks are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for commercial transactions, pro- vided that they cover such operations abroad. For corporations or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the central bank may offer a for- ward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the central bank, which also issues exchange permits; the central bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for personal invisi- ble payments. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Supply, and Agriculture. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kro- ner, and Swiss francs. Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be col- lected in any convertible currency through an autho- rized bank in Jordan, from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash in for- eign bank notes from abroad. Jordan maintains bilat- eral trade and payments agreements with Iraq and the Republic of Yemen; both are inactive. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the central bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic and foreign currency. Withdrawals and transfers from foreign currency accounts are not restricted. In addition, nonresidents, including Jor- danians working abroad, may freely open inter- est-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency and may be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in interna- tional markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in a foreign currency may be opened at the central bank by governmental and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the spe- cialized credit institutions, licensed finance compa- nies, and domestic corporations of vital national interest, provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling may be raised in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 500,000. If an account has been credited with currency notes, or with a transfer through the banking system or with checks in for- eign currency, it may be debited to make payments for imports or for invisibles with currency permits; permits are not required if the account has been credited with transfers through the banking system or with checks in foreign currency. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than six months and have decided to return may continue to keep 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 263 accounts in foreign currencies without limit for up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 500,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Licensed banks and financial compa- nies may extend credit facilities in Jordan dinars to residents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits. Extending credit facilities to resi- dents against their foreign currency deposits requires the prior approval of the central bank. The amounts of credit facilities extended to nonresi- dents against their foreign currency deposits should not exceed 5 percent of total credit granted by a bank or a financial company. Furthermore, the balance of the foreign currency deposit used as col- lateral against the extended credit facilities should not, at any time, be less than the outstanding bal- ance of credit facilities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Other imports, unless mentioned in Article 3 of the Import and Export System,2 require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 2,000. A fee of 5 per- cent of the c. & f. value is charged when the import license is issued. Imports requiring a license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for imports except those made by government depart- ments and certain approved institutions and indi- vidual permits of less than JD300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval from the central bank, which is normally given for essen- tial imports only. Imports into Free Zones Since the central bank has ceased to issue exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to provide foreign currency to finance such transac- tions. Banks are authorized to set the percentage of advance import deposits they collect from custom- ers against these imports at their discretion. 2 These include imports made on behalf of His Majesty the King, imports by government departments and certain approved institutions, and goods in transit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Residents are permitted to transfer foreign means of payment equivalent to JD 35,000 a year to meet current payments for invisibles (travel, education, medication, pilgrimage, residence abroad, family assistance, and others) without obtaining the prior approval of the central bank and without present- ing any document to justify these payments. They may transfer amounts in excess of JD 35,000 when justified by supporting documents. In comparison, transfers from nonresident accounts are free of restriction. The authorized amount for subscrip- tions to newsletters, magazines, and specific bulle- tins is the equivalent of JD 1,000. The policy on payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the central bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible payments except those of government departments and certain approved institutions, per- mits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency credited from sources outside Jordan, and permits with a value of less than JD 300. Remittances may be made by postal order for imports not to exceed JD 10 a person a month to any person resid- ing abroad. Premiums for life insurance policies issued by insurance companies operating in the Kingdom in favor of nonresidents or Jordanians working abroad must be collected in foreign currency from abroad or from nonresident accounts. In addition to any exchange allowances for travel, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 5,000 in Jordanian bank notes and coins. Nonresidents working in Jordan may transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they may transfer up to JD 100 a month up to a maximum of JD 1,200 a year. Fur- thermore, all travelers may take out checks, trav- eler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the central bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other for- eign means of payment that they had or that they had previously brought in and declared to the cus- toms authorities at the time of entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JORDAN Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from exported goods (goods of Jordanian origin and for- eign goods re-exported from the Kingdom) must be repatriated within one month of the due date of payment. Exporters are allowed to retain 10 percent of proceeds in deposits at local commercial banks or financial institutions and to use them to pay for imports of inputs. Fertilizer and mining companies must sell balances exceeding 10 percent of proceeds to the central bank, which provides their foreign exchange requirements. The central bank provides advances to authorized banks against export credits and bills for products whose local value added is at least 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through an authorized bank. Travel- ers entering Jordan may bring in any amount of Jor- danian and foreign notes and coins. Individuals who, for exchange control purposes, are considered residents of Jordan may retain only the equivalent of JD 500,000 a person in foreign currency in the Kingdom, as stipulated in the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations. They must sell the excess amount to licensed banks, financial companies, or authorized dealers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but outward transfers by residents require approval and are not normally permitted. However, the cen- tral bank may grant permission to banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contrac- tors to transfer funds abroad for specified invest- ment or operating purposes. The transfer of funds for purposes of investment in Arab countries is per- mitted only if mutual treatment or bilateral agree- ments exist between Jordan and the country, and it is the investor's responsibility to provide foreign exchange to finance such investments. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law Regulating Arab and Foreign Investments, capital, profits, and dividends from foreign investments may be remitted. The Foreign Companies Registra- tion Law No. 58 (1985) provides various benefits to foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan 3Approval is not granted for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. for purposes of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonres- ident status for exchange control purposes. Nonres- idents may use convertible currencies to purchase Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jor- dan dinars. Proceeds from redemption at maturity, including interest, are transferable in any convert- ible currency. Gold The central bank has issued ten gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. Imports of gold in any form are permitted without the prior approval of the central bank, while imports of gold to be used in crafts and then re-exported are subject to the prior approval of the central bank. Exports of gold other than gold that has been crafted and whose value has thus increased require the prior approval of the central bank. Changes During 1993 Foreign Currency Accounts July 11. Licensed banks were authorized to offer foreign currency account services to residents and nonresidents. Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The central bank made the following adjustments to the general conditions concerning its advances to licensed banks and financial compa- nies against export credits and bills and against bank drafts and collections: (1) the interest rate charged on export-promotion facilities by the cen- tral bank was changed to 5.0 percentage points, instead of 3.5 percentage points, below the prevail- ing rediscount rate; and (2) the commission charged by banks on exporters was raised from 2.0 percent to 2.55 percent. December 26. The central bank decided to exclude export-promotion facilities from the outstanding credit facilities, which are subject to the 90 percent credit ratio. Capital January 5. Licensed banks and financial compa- nies were authorized to offer to nonresidents the service of Investment Portfolios Management in major foreign currencies, with a minimum amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 265 of $250,000 and a maximum of $500,000 for each portfolio. July 1. Licensed banks were authorized to offer margin trading services for nonresidents through their nonresident foreign currency accounts cred- ited with foreign means of payment incoming from abroad, provided that banks keep a 30 percent mar- gin from each position. supported with either one of the following two guarantees (instead of the first one only) to ensure the repatriation of foreign currency transferred through the same bank that issued the exchange permit: (1) An external banking guarantee of an amount equal to the advance payment; or (2) a local guarantee of an amount equal to 20 percent of the advance payment in favor of the central bank. Changes During 1994 Nonresident Accounts January 25. Licensed banks and financial compa- nies were authorized to open accounts in foreign currencies for nonresidents without any conditions. In addition, withdrawals and transfers from non- resident accounts were permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments January 25. Applications for exchange permits that include advance payments were required to be Payments for Invisibles January 25. Any resident is permitted to transfer foreign means of payment equivalent to JD 35,000 a year, instead of JD 20,000 a year, to meet current payments for invisibles (travel, education, medica- tion, pilgrimage, residence abroad, family assis- tance, and others) without obtaining the prior approval of the central bank and without present- ing any document to justify these payments. Trans- fers by residents in excess of the JD 35,000 for invisibles are also permitted when justified by sup- porting documents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the Tenge.1 Exchange rates of the tenge against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies are determined at periodic auctions held by the Kazakhstan Interbank Currency Exchange (KICE) which includes 21 com- mercial banks and the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK). These rates are also used for all official trans- actions. The policy of the Government is to limit intervention in the auction only to smooth out sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and let supply and demand conditions determine the rates at the auc- tions. Purchasers of foreign exchange are subject to a commission of 0.3 percent payable at the auction and a 1 percent commission payable to the authorized bank. Residents planning to sell or purchase foreign currency at the auction (via authorized banks) are required to present documents establishing compli- ance with prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Foreign exchange purchased at the auction and not used within two months must be reauctioned. Only spot transactions are permitted at the auctions. The spread between the buying and selling rates is not allowed to exceed 10 percent. At the end of Decem- ber 1993, the average exchange rate of the tenge against the U.S. dollar was T 6.30 per US$1. Administration of Control Parliament approved a foreign exchange law in April 1993 which established the principle of con- vertibility for current international transactions. Revised foreign exchange regulations are being introduced by the NBK. The Ministry of Economy prepares the overall quotas for delivery outside Kazakhstan on the basis of territorial and specific commodity level material balances and has the power to establish export quotas for sale of export goods through auctions. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations is the authority that grants licenses for export or import. The Cabinet of Minis- ters may decide to limit the export or import of goods not subject to quotas and licenses, depending on the economic situation. In addition, the heads of local governments may set up regimes of quotas and licenses for consumer goods other than food. 1The tenge was issued on November 15, 1993 as the national currency and became the sole legal tender in Kazakhstan as of November 18,1993. Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts of the NBK and commercial banks. Settle- ments with countries with which Kazakhstan main- tains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Resi- dents of Kazakhstan may make and receive interna^ tional payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in Russian rubles. In general, for- eign currency may not be used for the settlement of domestic transactions between residents.3 Transac- tions between residents and nonresidents involving the sale or purchase of foreign currency are limited to those conducted through authorized banks. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises may main- tain convertible foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. These accounts, which are inter- est bearing, may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances in these accounts may be freely used for any purpose. Residents may also maintain convertible currency accounts abroad with permission from the NBK. Nonresidents may hold accounts in Kazakhstan in domestic or foreign currencies. Withdrawals from these accounts, including transfers abroad, are not restricted. Imports and Exports Trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. under trade agreements is conducted through acquisitions and shipments by financially independent state trading organizations, Kazcontract (formerly the Ministry of Material Resources), and sectoral trad- ing organizations (including Kazrisheprom, Kaz- 2At the end of 1993 Kazakhstan maintained bilateral payments agreements with China, Cuba, and all of the states of the former U.S.S.R. except Estonia. 3 Exemptions are permitted for payments to residents provid- ing freight, insurance, or other intermediary services in respect of foreign currency-denominated trade; payments to residents supplying inputs required for the production of exports sold for foreign currencies; payments for selected domestic telecommu- nications services; payments to banks and other financial institu- tions in respect of liabilities incurred in foreign currencies; and where otherwise specially authorized by the NBK. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 267 pisheprom, Kazhleboprodukt, Kazgazifikatsia, Leginvest, and Stroymaterialy). Trade with other countries is also effected under a system of inter- governmental trade agreements, quotas, and licenses. Overall export quotas are prepared by the Ministry of Economy on the basis of balances of specific products in various territories. All export and import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and the exportation or importation of goods not subject to quotas and licenses may be restricted by the Cabi- net of Ministers depending on the domestic eco- nomic situation. For both exports and imports, general or specific licenses may be granted. A general license is given for the period necessary to complete the export or import operations, but in any case not for a period exceeding one year. Operations under a general license may take place with more than one contract but must be of the same general nature. Specific licenses are provided for an individual export or import transaction and are valid for one calendar year. By a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of March 10,1993, the export quotas for a list of items consid- ered consistent with state needs were established. The product items listed under the decree are energy products, metals, chemicals and petrochemicals, equipment for building of machinery, construction materials, consumer goods, and food items. These quotas are assigned to various ministries, and finally to individual exporting enterprises. The list of overall export quotas for 1994 was set in a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 16, 1993.4 These export quotas, covering a shorter list of goods "of national importance" and additional to the export quotas set for interstate trade, were assigned to various ministries by the Ministry of Economics, and these ministries have prepared quota assign- ments for exporting enterprises and submitted them to the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, which in turn assigned a specific quantity of prod- ucts to individual trading companies. Unused quo- tas from 1993 cannot be carried over to 1994 unless supporting documents indicate that it is for export of goods already produced in the previous year. Under a Presidential decree of July 30, 1993, cer- tain products of "importance to the state" are required to be exported and re-exported exclusively through state foreign trade organizations, and the quotas for these products are compulsory for the enterprises producing these goods. All export pro- ceeds except for those of joint ventures are subject to the surrender requirement at the rate of 50 per- cent. Auction rates at the KICE are applied to the surrendered foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Purchases by residents of foreign exchange for tourist purposes are limited to $500 a person; there are no limits on withdrawals from convertible cur- rency accounts for the same purposes. Purchases of foreign exchange for business travel abroad are, in principle, subject to limits, which are based on coun- try-specific norms for accommodation and subsis- tence expenses, but are not officially enforced. In practice, banks are free to grant exemptions to these limits. Foreign exchange may be purchased without limit for purposes of study abroad if the appropriate documents are produced. Remittances for family maintenance purposes are subject to certain limits. Payments for invisibles permitted to be made by residents are officially tolerated for nonresidents. Nonresident workers in Kazakhstan are free to make transfers abroad. The remittance of dividends and profits is subject to approval. Proceeds from invisibles earned by enterprises are subject to the same surrender requirement as that which is applied to merchandise exports. Pro- ceeds from invisibles earned by private individuals are not subject to surrender requirements. The importation and exportation of domestic bank notes are subject to limits. Capital Capital transactions between residents and nonres- idents require approval from the NBK. Foreign direct investments in the defence sector are prohibited. Nei- ther residents nor nonresidents are permitted to own land. A new law on foreign direct investment clarify- ing the treatment of foreign capital and profits was submitted to Parliament in December 1993. Gold All transactions in gold must be effected through the NBK, which buys gold products in the country at world market prices. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement included in the export quota list for 1994 are oil, coal, various fuels, copper, zinc, lead, bauxite, ferrous metals, tin, raw leather, cotton fiber, pure wool, sturgeon caviar, and cereals. November 15. The tenge was issued as the national currency. It became the sole legal tender as of November 18,1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 Imports and Exports KAZAKHSTAN July 1. The rate of surrender requirement for export proceeds in Russian rubles was set at 30 percent. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 1. The Republican Hard Currency Fund was abolished. All foreign exchange transactions would be effected through the budget, and all transactions in convertible currencies would be made through the NBK. Imports and Exports January 1. A decree imposing full compulsory surrender requirement at a uniform rate of 50 per- cent came into effect; joint ventures would be exempted from the surrender requirement. Auction rates at the KICE are applied to surrendered foreign exchange. Foreign exchange taxes on export pro- ceeds were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling. On October 18, 1993, the market and the official exchange rates were unified. The market rate is determined on the basis of underlying supply and demand conditions in the interbank market. The offi- cial exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate. The .principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government-guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget alloca- tion. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate was KSh 68.14 per US$1. The operation of foreign exchange bearer certifi- cates (FEBCs) has been phased out. Under an export foreign exchange retention scheme, exporters are allowed to retain 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency accounts with banks in Kenya and may use the retained proceeds to finance business-related cur- rent expenses and debt-service payments or sell them to banks at a market-determined exchange rate. Exporters must use retention funds within 90 days, after which they must sell the balance to the Central Bank of Kenya at the prevailing exchange rate. Banks, in turn, are permitted to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to any client at market-determined exchange rates for the same purposes, to purchase foreign exchange in the retention market for their own accounts, to offer forward exchange contracts to exporters and importers at market-determined rates without restriction on the amount or period covered, or to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to another bank. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice; there are no limits on the amount or period of cover. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing, except for the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund, which covers the foreign exchange losses associated with exchange rate fluctuations occurring after July 1, 1989 for three development finance institutions. The Minister for Finance has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks to approve certain payments for imports, all payments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses were abolished in May 1993, except for a short neg- ative list of goods prohibited for health, security, or environmental reasons. The responsibility for issu- ing import licenses, when required, rests with the Director. The Director issues special licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, including certain agricultural products and goods whose exportation is restricted based on security and environmental reasons. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of other countries may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an external account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an external account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from services) are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks. Use of funds in these accounts is lim- ited in the same manner as use of export retention accounts. Export retention accounts may be con- verted into foreign currency accounts. Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign cur- rency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts; use of funds in these accounts is not restricted. Accounts in for- eign currency held by residents of other countries with authorized banks in Kenya are designated for- eign currency accounts. They may be freely credited with authorized payments by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other foreign currency accounts, with the proceeds from sales of any cur- 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 KENYA rency and gold by nonresidents to authorized deal- ers, and with retained foreign exchange earnings. Foreign currency accounts may be freely debited for payments to residents and nonresidents. Payment of interim dividends to nonresident shareholders may be remitted without limit, provided that the application is supported by adequate documenta- tion. Commercial banks may, without reference to the Central Bank, remit pension contributions to nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents relating to investments made prior to February 28,1994 are cred- ited to blocked accounts. Remittances from blocked accounts are permitted freely, except for those relating to investments made prior to February 28, 1994. Remittances of funds in blocked accounts relating to investments made prior to February 28,1994 may be made by commercial banks up to $10,000 a year with- out referring to the Central Bank; amounts exceeding this limit must be referred to the Central Bank. Nonresidents may also operate undesignated nonresident accounts alongside foreign currency accounts denominated in Kenya shillings. These accounts may be credited freely with proceeds of drawings from foreign currency accounts for local use. Funds in these accounts are not transferable to foreign currency accounts. Enterprises operating in export processing zones (EPZs) are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and may use the bal- ances on these amounts to pay business-related expenses (including imports, debt service, and divi- dends). They are not required to surrender foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses are not required except for a few items that, for health, security, and environmental reasons, are included on a negative list. Customs tariffs are applied as the sole form of protection of domestic industry. There are six customs tariff nomenclatures, with rates varying from zero to 62 percent. Exporters of horticultural goods and agro-based products are exempt from import duties and value-added tax on imported inputs. Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange against the following documents: a copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, an original clean report of findings from a nominated inspection agency, and a copy of the customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as contributions toward equity capital or are on a loan basis. Advance payments for imports may be made through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. All imports with an f.o.b. value of more than K Sh 100,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a clean report of findings. Authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive the report. All goods pur- chased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to conduct insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks may approve respective exchange control forms and provide foreign exchange subject to the following limits: (1) Fees and other expenses for education, up to the equivalent of K Sh 1.25 million a person for a full scholastic year, and fees for other specified purposes, upon presenta- tion of documentary evidence. (2) The basic allowance for personal travel of K Sh 9,000 a day for living expenses, up to a maximum of 30 days during any one trip plus air fare cost. Authorized banks and air- lines or travel agents are required to record the allow- ance and cost of air fare in the traveler's passport, the total of which must not exceed K Sh 1.25 million in any given year for an adult and K Sh 625,000 for a child between 3 and 12 years of age. (3) Medical treat- ment abroad of up to K Sh 1.25 million a year on the basis of actual medical bills or estimated costs of treat- ment by the attending doctor or hospital. A resident in Kenya may be allowed to transfer foreign currency to cover any of the following items up to the following limits: (1) for payments for books, periodicals, sub- scriptions to clubs and societies, advertising, and pub- licity material, the equivalent of $500 per item; (2) for personal insurance premiums, K Sh 400,000 a year; (3) for advertisements by individual persons in publi- cations issued outside Kenya, K Sh 32,000 for one or more insertions; and (4) for legal fees payable outside Kenya by individual persons, K Sh 350,000 per case. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 500,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Payments of interim dividends to nonresident shareholders may be remitted without limit, provided that the application is supported by adequate documentation. Commercial banks may, without referring to the Central Bank, remit pension contributions to nonresidents. Requests for payments exceeding the above lim- its may be referred to the Central Bank with the rel- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 271 evant documentary evidence. Bona fide requests for current payments and transfers are automatically approved without undue delay. Banks may approve applications made by foreign nationals for personal remittance of savings for amounts up to K Sh 100,000 a month or 33^ percent of the actual monthly gross earned income of the applicant, whichever is less. Applications for remittance in excess of this limit must be approved by the Central Bank. The exportation of domestic bank notes exceed- ing K Sh 100,000 requires approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported without special licenses. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricul- tural products require special licenses and may be restricted to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic mate- rials are also subject to special licensing. Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respectively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be repatriated to Kenya in an approved manner within three months of the date of exportation but need not be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles may be kept in reten- tion accounts. Travelers may freely bring in and take out foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on the exportation of currencies; however, foreign currency notes in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared at the point of entry or departure. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to K Sh 100,000; exceeding amounts require prior approval from the Central Bank. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted to remit savings from their salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a blocked account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is gen- erally not restricted, but to ensure eventual repatri- ation it is necessary to obtain from the treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign investors may repatriate the value of the original equity investment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Effective December 15, 1993, local borrowing by foreign- controlled companies, which in the past was restricted to priority sectors, has been permitted for companies in all sectors of the economy up to a limit of 20 percent of the share capital and unim- paired reserves of the company in question. For companies with local participation, the borrowing limit is increased by the equivalent of the local par- ticipation in the respective company. Foreign bor- rowings by residents to finance real investment, including those for working capital purposes that do not involve government guarantees, are permit- ted up to the equivalent of $1 million without refer- ence to the Central Bank, provided that interest is not more than 2 percentage points above LIBOR. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in government securities. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a blocked account unless they are reinvested. Purchases of foreign securities by residents are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 KENYA other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange con- trol approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 24. Commercial banks were authorized to operate the interbank market, and retained for- eign exchange was allowed to be traded freely at negotiated rates. March 9. The official exchange rate was devalued from K Sh 36 to K Sh 45.6 per US$1. April 20. The official exchange rate was devalued from K Sh 45.6 to K Sh 60 per US$1. May 14. The official exchange rate was devalued from K Sh 60 to K Sh 64 per US$1. October 18. The official exchange rate and the market exchange rate would be determined by market forces. The official rate would be set at the previous day's average market rate. Resident and Nonresident Accounts December 15. Commercial banks were authorized to approve transfers abroad of funds in blocked accounts relating to investments made prior to Feb- ruary 28,1994 equivalent to $20,000 a year without referring to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments for licensing procedures February 24. Most imports were lifted. March 22. Import-licensing requirements were reintroduced for most goods. May 14. Import and foreign exchange allocation licenses were abolished, except for a short negative list of goods restricted for health, security, and envi- ronmental reasons. Commercial banks were autho- rized to handle all import applications without prior approval from the Central Bank, except for goods on the negative list. November 1. All restrictions on the importation of maize were removed. December 15. Advance payments for imports were permitted through commercial banks without the approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles December 15. The maximum amount for remit- tances of savings of nonresidents that may be made by commercial banks without reference to the Cen- tral Bank was increased from K Sh 10,000 to K Sh 100,000 or 33^ percent of the actual monthly gross earned income of the nonresident, whichever is less. December 15. Foreign currency notes were permit- ted to be freely imported (and exported); amounts in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared at the point of entry (or departure). The limit on the exportation (and importation) of Kenya currency notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank was set at K Sh 10,000. December 15. Remittances of pensions were allowed without limit and without referring to the Central Bank. December 15. Payments of interim dividends to nonresidents were allowed. Exports and Export Proceeds February 24. The foreign exchange retention scheme was expanded to cover export earnings from most goods and services. May 14. The foreign exchange retention system was reintroduced at a retention ratio of 50 percent. Foreign exchange in retention accounts was allowed to be traded at market-determined exchange rates. Capital December 15. Foreign borrowings by residents to finance real investment, including those for working capital purposes that do not involve government guarantees, were permitted up to the equivalent of $1 million without reference to the Central Bank, provided that interest is not more than 2 percentage points above LIBOR. Local borrowings by for- eign-controlled companies were permitted in all sec- tors of the economy up to a limit of 20 percent of the share capital and unimpaired reserves of the com- pany. For companies with local participation, the borrowing limit was increased to the equivalent of the local participation in the company. Changes During 1994 Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 21. Remittances from blocked accounts were liberalized, except those relating to invest- ments made prior to February 28,1994. Remittances of funds in blocked accounts relating to invest- ments made prior to February 28, 1994 may be made by commercial banks up to $100,000; applica- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 273 tions for remittances in excess of $100,000 must be referred to the Central Bank of Kenya. February 21. Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings (including earnings from ser- vices) were allowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks. Use of funds in these accounts would be limited in the same manner as use of export retention accounts. Export retention accounts may be converted into foreign currency accounts. Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign currency accounts with Kenyan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts; use of funds in the accounts would not be restricted. February 21. The requirement that foreigners must pay hotel bills, airline tickets, and airport ser- vice charges in convertible foreign currency was abolished. The 10 percent air travel levy and the 5 percent sea travel levy were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds February 21. The export retention ratio was increased to 100 percent of export earnings for all exporters. The requirement to repatriate export pro- ceeds within three months remained in effect. Capital Payments for Invisibles February 21. Restrictions on remittances by for- eigners of monthly earnings were removed, subject to verification of income and payment of tax. February 21. Persons leaving Kenya were allowed to export Kenyan bank notes up to K Sh 100,000; exportation of amounts in excess of K Sh 100,000 would require approval from the Central Bank. February 21. Borrowing by foreign-controlled com- panies on the domestic market was fully liberalized. February 21. Offshore borrowings by residents were allowed without limit, provided that (1) inter- est does not exceed LIBOR plus 2 percentage points, and (2) such borrowing is not guaranteed by the Government. Applications for borrowings on other terms must be referred to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati (the only commer- cial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Aus- tralian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22,1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be under- taken with the Bank of Kiribati, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohib- ited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Tariffs apply to most private imports and range up to 75 percent. Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Solomon Islands dol- lars, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, and encourage export- promoting or import-substituting investments. All applications for foreign investment must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applications of total foreign capital contri- bution up to $A 250,000. Applications with a higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, investors may be granted duty-free imports of capi- tal goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to six years. Repatriation of profits and capital is nor- mally unrestricted. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff rates on some 34 product items, mainly consumer goods (including salt, milk prod- ucts, coffee, rice, sugar, fats and margarine, cement, benzine, cooking gas, and finished clothing) were increased by 5-30 percent. Most tariff increases were in the range of 10-20 percent. Specific duties on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and soft drinks were raised by 12-21 percent. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position as of March 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Since the introduction of a market average rate (MAR) system on March 2,1990, the Korean won-U.S. dol- lar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates iot Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won-U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank mar- ket is allowed to fluctuate within fixed margins of ±1 percent against the MAR of the previous day. The exchange rates of the won against currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies in the international market. On Decem- ber 31,1993, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was W 808.1. The buying and selling rates offered to customers are set freely by foreign exchange banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts in respect of interbank transac- tions. However, the terms of forward contracts between foreign exchange banks and nonbank cus- tomers must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment of the transaction. For- ward transactions involving foreign currencies or those involving domestic currency in amounts not exceeding $3 million are exempt from the "underly- ing documentation" (UD) requirement. There are no ceilings on UD-exempted foreign exchange deposits payable in Korean won. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 1,1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank of Korea has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. Foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of foreign banks in Korea, are authorized to engage in commercial interna- tional banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries may be made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed curren- cies.1 Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements will be made in designated foreign currencies; for transactions up to $100,000, the settle- ments of exports and imports (including reinsur- ance) in Korean won are permitted. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to approved transactions. Nonresidents are allowed to hold free won accounts. All residents are allowed to open foreign cur- rency deposit accounts. Holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of the accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: automatic approval items and restricted items. All commodi- 1 In addition to the Hong Kong dollar, the prescribed currencies are those of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 KOREA ties may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are on the restricted list. As of December 1992, 196 of the 10,417 basic items on the Harmonized System were classified as restricted. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are nor- mally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to have exported and/or imported a minimum value of $500,000 in any one of the last two calendar years. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. Safeguards against excessive imports are pro- vided under the Foreign Trade Act of 1987. A seven-member Trade Commission established under this act determines whether imports have harmed domestic industries, and, if its finding is affirmative, it recommends the form of import relief to be provided, including quotas and quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Those connected with foreign trade, along with certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 60 days is $3,000 (the allowance for Korean nationals working as overseas correspon- dents of mass media is $10,000). Credit card holders are allowed to charge on an unlimited basis all expenses directly associated with their travel dur- ing business and official trips to foreign countries. The basic monthly allowance for individual stu- dents living abroad is $2,000; students with a family receive an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each child. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children abroad for living expenses and to their rel- atives abroad for a wedding gift or funeral dona- tion. In addition, residents may remit up to $10,000 a year without approval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Governor of the Bank of Korea approves any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes in excess of the equiva- lent of $10,000 may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the country, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require indi- vidual licenses. All other products may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure. For- eign exchange proceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign cur- rency accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or depos- ited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. However, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to $10,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. The importation by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by construction compa- nies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and a for- eign exchange bank must approve the conversion of these funds after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is virtually automatic. Capital Overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents generally require approval. Overseas direct investments of less than $5 million by Korean residents must be reported to the Bank of Korea; investments of between $5 million and $10 million require approval from the Bank of Korea; and those of more than $10 million require approval from both the Bank of Korea and the Deliberation Committee for Overseas Investment. A Korean business incorpo- rated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the pur- pose of expanding its overseas investment business or improving its financial status. Overseas portfolio investments may be made only by institutional ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 277 investors and are limited to $100 million ($200 mil- lion for securities or investment trust companies with an international business license and insurance companies with assets of over W5 trillion). Prior approval from the Minister of Finance is required for loans exceeding $20 million to nonresidents by for- eign exchange banks, loans by Korean residents to nonresidents, and loans to residents of countries with which Korea does not have diplomatic rela- tions. Issuance of stocks and bonds abroad is subject only to the notification requirement. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants varies with family size. Additional allowances for emigrant investment abroad are subject to the rec- ommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. The overbought and oversold position of foreign exchange banks is limited to 10 percent and 20 per- cent, respectively, of their capital base; the portion used to hedge capital or operational funds is exempt from this limit. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows: Foreign Investment Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list. In December 1993, the negative list consisted of 208 out of 1,148 industries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 85.1 percent. In the manufacturing sector, the negative list consisted of 12 out of 585 indus- tries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 98.1 per- cent. The negative list distinguishes between the prohibited sector (activities reserved exclusively for the Government and public entities) and the restricted sector (171 businesses, including manu- facturing of tobacco products, which is operated by the national or public organizations) and the restricted sector (37 businesses, including foreign trade). Foreign investments in this sector are allowed when the criteria for approval are met. In general, foreign-invested companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that are accom- panied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been continuously reduced, and after-investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list (which are subject to restrictions with respect to foreign equity participa- tion) that are designated small or medium-size companies, as well as those in the wholesale and retail sectors, are subject to a notification require- ment. A foreign firm is permitted to engage in busi- ness 20-30 days after submitting this notification unless the notification is not accepted for reasons of national security, protection of the environment, or violation of antitrust or fair trade laws. The notifica- tion system has gradually been expanded, and all but a few liberalized industries have been covered by the system since the beginning of January 1993. Acquisition of land by foreign-invested companies is subject to the approval of the provincial and local governments. Investment approval is normally granted within 30 days. Remittances abroad of divi- dends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks pr shares owned by a foreign investor are freely per- mitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is also freely permitted. Foreign ownership of firms listed on the Korean Stock Market may not exceed 10 percent of a firm's equity, and individual foreign investors may not hold more than 3 percent of a firm's equity. Direct investments abroad of up to $300,000 by residents are approved by foreign exchange banks. Resident business firms may retain up to the equiv- alent of 30 percent of their total value of imports and exports with a maximum of $300 million. Loans Authorization is required for all foreign borrow- ing by firms other than banks. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 million and with a maturity of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. Regula- tions governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of December 1990, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan Province of China (due to their geographical proximity) and to 60 days for imports originating in other countries. Foreign exchange banks must obtain approval for all borrowing exceeding $10 million with a maturity of over one year. Their oversold foreign exchange position may not exceed 20 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $10 million, whichever is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KOREA greater. (For spot transactions only, the corresponding limit is 5 percent or $5 million, whichever is greater.) Subject to certain ceilings, branches of foreign banks may enter into foreign currency swap trans- actions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic cur- rency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any approval or license. This means that certain com- memorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products whose primary component is gold, require the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domesti- cally produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The margin within which the exchange rate of the won against the U.S. dollar is permitted to fluctuate was widened to ±1 percent around the market average rate. October 1. The regulations on foreign exchange transactions including forward transactions were liberalized as follows: (1) the ceiling on foreign exchange deposits payable in domestic currency, which was exempted from the documentation requirement, was abolished; (2) forward transac- tions involving foreign currencies or domestic cur- rency in amounts not exceeding $3 million were exempted from documentation requirements, pro- vided that they are declared and conform to the "real demand" principle. October 1. For purposes of monitoring their over- bought-oversold position, banks were given the option of applying a 10 percent ratio to their capital base instead of the existing ratio that is based on the volume of foreign exchange transactions. The dif- ferentiation between nationwide commercial banks and regional banks for purposes of monitoring for- eign exchange exposure limits was abolished. Prescription of Currency October 1. Settlements of exports and imports (including reinsurance) in Korean won were per- mitted for transactions up to the equivalent of $100,000. Nonresident and Resident Accounts October 1. Nonresidents were allowed to hold free won accounts. Capital October 1. Issuance of stocks and bonds abroad was liberalized, and it was subjected only to the notification requirements. Changes During 1994 Capital March 1. (I) The number of restricted businesses for overseas direct investments by residents was reduced to 14 from 17, and the limit on the amount of investments foreign exchange banks are autho- rized to approve was increased to $300,000; (2) the ceilings on the amount that resident corporations operating abroad and their overseas branches may borrow from nonresident financial institutions located abroad were abolished; and (3) the limit on the amount of foreign exchange resident business firms may retain abroad was increased to the equiv- alent of 30 percent of their total import and export values, with the maximum increased to $300 mil- lion from $100 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the rela- tive importance of these currencies in Kuwait's trade and financial relations. The Central Bank of Kuwait sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1993, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.33490 and KD 0.33479, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The most common arrangement in the official and the commercial banking sectors for handling cover against exchange rate risk is through dealings in the inter- national forward exchange markets. The forward market for Kuwaiti dinar trading, however, has been suspended since the war with Iraq. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited con- trol over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey. 1 In addition, all imports from and all exports to these coun- tries are prohibited; payments may not be made to or received from them for any type of transaction. Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables; licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and compa- nies. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for one-time use. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial establishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. The importation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and food- stuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all part- ners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nation- als own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emir- ates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tariffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. In accordance with a GCC resolution (of 1985), Kuwait implements a system of preferential tariffs allowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 KUWAIT rates differ, depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 per- cent, and 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. In 1985, tariffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gyp- sum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986, customs' tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, commercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987, the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989, tariffs were imposed on imports of air filters for automobiles (25 percent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of por- table telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for gov- ernment procurement of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti- produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states, and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are accorded a 5 percent price margin over goods produced outside the GCC. The maximum duty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foodstuffs as well as some industrial establish- ments' imports of machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. On March 14, 1991, the tariff rate was reduced to zero for a transitional period of six months to encourage imports of goods into Kuwait for postwar reconstruction. On December 29, 1991, this exemp- tion was extended through March 1992. In July 1992, import duties were reinstated at the rate of 4 percent, except for capital goods and raw materials. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses but licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be dis- posed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or foreign bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer into Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; new Kuwaiti companies must be at least 51 percent owned by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in companies estab- lished in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolu- tion, to eliminate restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals, effective March 1987. However, import- licensing restrictions were to remain in effect for non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks on the Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries. The list- ing of Kuwaiti dinar-denominated bonds on the Exchange is also subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Dealings in stocks are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens, but foreigners are permitted to buy and sell bonds in the Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 281 Gold Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Som.1 The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) publishes daily the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble; this rate is calculated from the transaction rates in the Bishkek interbank foreign currency market. On December 31,1993, the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar quoted by the NBK was Som 8.03 per US$1. In addition to the NBK, the commercial banks are authorized to conduct for- eign exchange transactions. Authorized banks are allowed to quote their own buying and selling rates. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The new central bank law, approved by Parlia- ment in December 1992, established the NBK's responsibility for managing the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves. A decree signed by the president on May 5, 1993 (which became effective on May 15) established the full convertibility of the som with no restrictions on buying, selling, or hold- ing foreign currencies. The NBK is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks. Foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Material Resources, which issues import and export licenses where required. Licenses for foreign investment and registration of foreign investors are granted by the State Commission for Foreign Invest- ments and Economic Aid (Goskominvest), in coordi- nation with the Ministry of Economics and Finance. The trading of a few agricultural products is con- ducted by state agencies and through state procure- ment at negotiated prices. l rThe som was issued on May 10, 1993, and the conversion (from the Russian ruble to the som) was completed by May 15, 1993. In addition to regular foreign exchange payments by the commercial banks, settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be made through a system of central bank correspondent accounts. Set- tlements with countries with which the Kyrgyz Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Settlements may be made in any con- vertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks and abroad. Nonresidents may hold accounts in domestic or for- eign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the operations of these accounts, including trans- fers abroad of balances held in the accounts. Imports and Exports Except for some items, which may not be imported for reasons of national interest, imports are permitted free of restrictions. The prohibited items include armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poisons, narcot- ics, works of art, and antiques. Imports are subject to customs duties ranging up to 30 percent. The rates exceeding 10 percent are imposed on the fol- lowing products: bed linen, TV. sets, and vehicles (10 percent); beer (15 percent); tobacco (20 percent); and alcoholic beverages (30 percent). Imports of raw materials and inputs necessary for production to meet the volume of output con- tracted under state purchase agreements are guar- anteed by the Government. Exports of a number of products3 require licenses. The exportation of a number of products is prohibited for reasons of national interest (i.e., armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials 2 The countries with which the Kyrgyz Republic has bilateral trade agreements are China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Romania, Turkey, and all the states of the former U.S.S.R., except Latvia and Estonia. 3 These include oil and oil products, natural gas, coal, ores and concentrates, non-ferrous and rare metals, scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals, precious metals and stones, grain, cotton, wool, leather, tobacco, silk cocoons, sugar beet seeds, herbs, and certain medicines. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 283 and equipment, poisons, narcotics, works of art, and antiques). There is no requirement to repatriate foreign exchange. Capital There are no restrictions on foreign borrowing by residents or enterprises. Legislation on foreign direct investment is being drawn up. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Residents are allowed to purchase any amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad or any other rea- son. The importation and exportation of Russian ruble notes and other foreign bank notes are freely allowed. There are no restrictions on remittances of divi- dends and profits by foreign investors. Profits earned on direct foreign investments are taxed at a rate of 30 percent (the same tax rate is applied to profits earned by domestic enterprises). All gold produced in the Kyrgyz Republic is sold at market prices, either in the domestic market or abroad, but the NBK has priority in purchasing it at the market price. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 10. A new national currency, the som, was issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic (the central bank). On December 31, 1993, the official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank for buying and selling were KN 716 and KN 718, respectively, per US$1; these rates are used for all transactions between the cen- tral bank and the commercial banks. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely deter- mined rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rate remains less than 2 percent. Foreign exchange may be sold by the bureaus for payments for authorized imports and payments for services within authorized limits. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The state-owned Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL) handles most authorized foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also administers exchange con- trols. The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism grants import and export authorization to state trading companies, mixed companies (joint ven- tures between domestic enterprises and foreign investors), cooperatives, and other public and pri- vate enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deut- sche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. the People's Republic of China, Thailand, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts. Resident individuals and jurid- ical persons may open foreign exchange accounts with an authorized commercial bank. These accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) transfers from abroad that do not result from exports of goods and services; (3) transfers or payments from foreign cur- rency accounts opened with commercial banks within the Lao PDR; and (4) foreign bank notes and coins. These accounts, which are interest bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized payments and transfers. Residents are not allowed to open convertible kip accounts. Residents are not allowed to maintain accounts without the approval of the central bank. Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accounts and convertible kip accounts. Their foreign currency accounts may be credited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign currency accounts in the Lao PDR; and (3) foreign currency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresidents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the central bank. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conver- sion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and non- residents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; (4) transfers abroad; and (5) payments for business or tourist travel, and medical treatment. Nonresidents may open convertible kip accounts, which may be credited with (1) sales of foreign cur- rencies, and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresi- dents are not permitted to deposit kip belonging to residents to their convertible kip accounts. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip, and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buying rate of the commercial bank concerned. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 285 Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made by any registered export-import business. These consist of state trad- ing companies, joint-venture trade companies, and private trade companies. These companies are cate- gorized as either enterprises producing mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multi-commodity, for export-import, or for export promotion. Imports are classified into the following nine categories: food and food products; textile gar- ments and daily supplies; office supplies, school instruments, sports equipment, and cultural instru- ments; machines and equipment for agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, and production of hand- icrafts; luxury goods; materials for construction and electrical products and instruments; vehicles and spare parts; medicine, medical equipment, and chemical products for manufacturing; and fuel. Enterprises that are producing import substitutes are allowed to import products only from the last four categories. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism and provincial govern- ment authorities, are required only for a select num- ber of goods and are not linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are rice, fuel, cement, reinforced wires, motorcycles and motor vehicles, and petroleum products. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restrictions. Imports of gold and silver are subject to authorization from the central bank. Margin deposits are required against letters of credit, and the rates are freely determined by the BCEL and other commercial banks and do not involve any government intervention. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The travel allowance is subject to a limit of $2,000 a person a trip. In practice, a traveler may purchase additional amounts of for- eign exchange from either commercial banks or for- eign exchange bureaus. There are no restrictions on remittances of profits earned by foreign investors. licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism and provincial government authorities, are required only for coffee, timber, wood products, rattan, and livestock. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restrictions; at present, restrictive quotas are applied only to timber. The public sector no longer has the monopoly on the exportation of timber, which is now open to the private sector. The expor- tation of timber was banned from April 1991 to June 1992. All goods may now be freely exported by the private sector. Export shipment of gold and silver requires authorization from the central bank. Export earnings are not subject to the surrender requirement, and they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with a commercial bank (to pay for authorized imports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accruing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1988, inward foreign capital transfers, profit remit- tances, and the repatriation of foreign investment capital are not restricted. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad unless authorized by the central bank. Changes During 1993 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and Export Proceeds Any registered export or import business is per- mitted to engage in export activities. Export January 9. The export duties and the natural resource tax on timber were replaced with a new, simplified system of timber royalties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Latvia is the Lats.1 The exchange rate of the lats is determined by demand and sup- ply conditions in the exchange market. The Bank of Latvia's policy is to ensure orderly conditions in the exchange market and limit short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate of the lats against convertible currencies. The Bank of Latvia reviews domestic and international exchange markets on a daily basis and announces buying and selling rates for the lats against the Estonian kroon, the Lithuanian litas, most major currencies, the SDR, and the European currency unit (ECU). The Bank of Latvia stands ready to transact with commercial banks at these rates. The exchange rates for the lats against con- vertible currencies other than the U.S. dollar are quoted on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A margin of less than 1 per- cent is applied in cross-rate quotations for curren- cies other than the U.S. dollar. Banks and other authorized exchange dealers also trade in these cur- rencies, and their buying and selling rates may deviate from time to time from the quoted rates. Since November 1, 1993, the Bank of Latvia also quotes daily the midpoint of the buying and selling rates of the lats against convertible currencies. These rates are used for various accounting pur- poses, including customs duties, taxation, and other valuations; they are valid through the next day and are communicated to all commercial banks. On December 31,1993, the official exchange rate of the lats was US$1.681 per Lats 1. The use of convertible currencies for domestic settlements is also permitted. The Bank of Latvia also quotes weekly the accounting rates of the lats for the currencies of those states of the former U.S.S.R. that are partici- pating in the system of correspondent accounts. Licensed foreign exchange dealers must pay a tax of 1.5 percent on purchases of foreign exchange. 1 Effective July 20,1992, the Latvian ruble replaced the Russian ruble as legal tender in Latvia, and in March 1993, the lats began to be issued as permanent currency at the conversion rate of Latvian ruble 200 per Lats 1. At this conversion rate, the exchange rate of the lats for the U.S. dollar was Lats 1 per US$1.5. The Latvian lats became the sole legal tender effective October 18,1993. Parliament has ultimate authority over foreign exchange and trade matters, but authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transac- tions has been delegated to the Bank of Latvia. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the Bank of Latvia. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. can be made through any means, including a sys- tem of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Latvia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Latvia has con- cluded trade agreements with Norway and Sweden that provide for trade in industrial goods but spe- cifically exclude agricultural products. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in cash or in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Nonresident natural persons are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Imports and Exports There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports except on imports of pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, fighting vehicles, prepared explosives and tobacco products. As of December 31, 1993, imports were subject to a general tariff of 15 percent (20 percent in the case of goods imported from countries with which Latvia has no trade agree- 2At the end of 1993, Latvia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakh- stan, the Kyrgyz Republic, L i thuan ia, Moldova, the Russian Fed- eration, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. At the end of 1993, Latvia also maintained Intergovernmental Trade and Eco- nomic Cooperation Agreements providing for most- favored-nation status with Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azer- baijan, Cuba, the European Union, Hungary, Iceland, India, Moldova, Poland, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Simi- lar agreements were signed in 1992 with the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. Latvia had free trade agreements with Nor- way, Finland, Sweden, and Switzerland. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 287 ment); however, a temporary exemption from import duty was in effect for imports of most raw materials and spare parts. A number of final goods were also exempt from import tariff, and certain goods, such as fruit and nuts, and coffee and tea, were subject to reduced tariffs of 7.5 percent. In December 1992 and April 1993, temporary specific tariffs (specified as U.S. dollars per unit volume) were imposed on imports of a range of domestically produced goods, mostly agricultural commodities. Higher specific tariffs were also applied to imports of a number of goods, including automobiles and their parts, alcohol, cigarettes, and certain cosmetics. Specific import duties are levied on a large num- ber of agricultural products, alcoholic beverages, cosmetic soaps, grains, flour, and bread. Food prod- ucts valued at less than lats 1.5 that are imported across the border by individuals are exempt from customs duties, as are imports of up to one liter of alcoholic beverages brought into the country in the same way. Individuals arriving in Latvia may bring in, free of duty, goods and articles other than food- stuffs and alcoholic beverages as long as their total value does not exceed 15 times the minimum wage. The importation of certain goods, such as firearms, is prohibited. There are no export quotas or licensing require- ments, except on exports of certain grains, pyro- technic products, arms and ammunition, fighting vehicles, prepared explosives, and ferrous and non- ferrous metals purchased in Latvia. Exports of cer- tain products, predominantly wood and wood products, metal and metal products, and leather and furs, are subject to export taxes. In some cases, these tariffs are reduced if the goods are exported to countries outside the former U.S.S.R. Export proceeds are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control or restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control regulations gov- erning capital transactions. Gold At present, there are no regulations governing international trade in gold. A license is required to deal in gold in the domestic market. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 5. The national currency, the lats, was introduced. October 18. The Latvian lats became the sole legal tender. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities may announce buying or sell- ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1993, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 1,711 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The duties and taxes on imported goods and services invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies are calculated at a conversion rate of LL800 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any cur- rency except Israeli new Sheqelim but are prohib- ited from engaging in forward transactions exceeding LL 500,000 unless the transactions are related to foreign trade. Lebanon formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1993. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammu- nition, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports prohibited year-round include citrus fruits, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and pea- nuts; imports prohibited during a certain period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, insulated electric and telephone wires, and copper cables. All other commodities may be imported without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before issu- ing letters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit in a local currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import let- ters of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such amounts with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is levied on all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 per LL 1,000 of the value of the goods. The tar- iff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain imports from member countries of the European Union (EU) and Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the appli- cable import duty is levied on certain textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehi- cles, imitation jewelry, watches, and alcoholic bev- erages. The surcharge on motor vehicles is levied at the following rates: 35 percent on vehicles valued at LL 10 million or less, and 60 percent on vehicles valued at more than LL 10 million. The rate of sur- charge on watches and imitation jewelry is 7 percent. The following rates of surcharge apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, LL 140 per 100 liters; champagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whisky, 30 percent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 percent, a municipality tax, and an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 a liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whisky. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammunition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 289 Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat derivatives to any country and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from extending to nonresidents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from non- resident banks unless the transactions are for com- mercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve require- ment; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that give rise directly to for- eign currency deposits, and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain long or short net foreign currency posi- tions up to 15 percent of the amount of their capital. However, banks may hold long net foreign cur- rency positions equal to the amount of increases in capital effected after June 1,1985 and to the general reserves established after the end of 1985. The amounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are not included in net foreign currency positions. Invest- ments in nonresident banks and other foreign insti- tutions are exempt from the net foreign currency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance on nonresi- dents' foreign currency deposits. Also, nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earn- ings from foreign currency deposits. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses that are more than 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The impor- tation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, that indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 1. Lebanon formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Mal- oti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 3.4000 and M 3.4013, respectively, per US$1. Authorized deal- ers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. By virtue of its membership in the CMA, Lesotho also maintains the financial rand system of South Africa. Under the financial rand system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely determined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain prop- erties. There are no forward cover arrangements for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland became effec- tive on April 1, 1986 (and was amended in 1989). Namibia, which was an indirect party to the agree- ment by virtue of its relationship with South Africa, officially became a party following its indepen- dence in March 1990. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted and unrecorded except for statisti- cal and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external currency transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of cur- rent payments up to established limits. Lesotho's trade-licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions accepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and imports originat- ing in any country of the SACU are unrestricted. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usu- ally licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the for- eign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve some types of current payments up to established limits. The basic annual exchange 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 291 allowance for tourist travel to neighboring coun- tries outside the CMA area—Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 6,000 for an adult and M 3,000 for a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries out- side the CMA region is M 19,000 and M 9,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 12,000 a person at rates not exceed- ing M 900 a day; the corresponding limits for busi- ness travel to other countries are M 28,000 and M 1,800, respectively. Larger allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treat- ment. Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maxi- mum amount of earnings on blocked assets that emigrants are allowed to transfer through normal banking channels is M 300,000 a year. Any excess may be transferred only through the financial rand system. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly doc- umented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may either borrow foreign currency, register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manufacturers approved by the Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act of 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the Central Bank. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and prof- its from investments held in Lesotho is not restricted, provided these funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 75,000, provided that the automobile was pur- chased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the finan- cial rand mechanism is M 500,000 for a family and M 250,000 for an unmarried person, of which M 20,000 may be in cash; the remainder may be used to acquire residential properties and a motor vehicle. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31 ,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 per US$1. There is no official intervention currency. The cur- rency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian currency.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Africa are prohibited. The Liberian National Petro- leum Company (LNPC) no longer has the exclusive right to import petroleum products; all eligible importers that obtain an Import Declaration Form from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import them. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private dis- tributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. A surtax of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both intermediate and final goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Prescription of Currency Exports and Export Proceeds Some exporters must pay withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South 1 U.S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transactions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commissions for their sales of off- shore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are per- mitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural prod- ucts other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explo- sives. Licenses are generally issued freely and serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent surrender of export proceeds and taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood prod- ucts for exportation have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content was raised to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export pro- ceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks; this requirement is not strictly enforced. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this for- eign exchange. That portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not purchased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or proceeds from invisibles. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA 293 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Under the Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five- year, 90 percent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on dis- tributable profits, and a protective tariff on compet- ing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for two more years in certain circum- stances. Most mining, logging, and rubber enter- prises, however, operate under special redundant agreements that provide for tax concessions for a period ranging up to 70 years. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident and Resident Accounts The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Libya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 per SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 25 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 per SDR 2.2400. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 16 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates against the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1993 was LD 3.07677 per US$1. Commercial banks may not deal among them- selves in foreign currencies but only through their foreign correspondents. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have resulted in a deviation of more than 2 percent between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the General People's Congresses and executed by the Secretariat of Planning, Trade, and Finance. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. A bilateral trade and pay- ments agreement is maintained with Malta; outstand- ing balances are settled in convertible currencies. Nonresidents (as defined by the Central Bank) who are gainfully employed in the country are per- mitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain nonresident accounts in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Such nonresi- dents may credit their legitimate earnings to their nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank after submission of the prescribed evi- dence, but, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remit- tances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qual- ify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent resi- dence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; bal- ances credited before March 31, 1966 have been released. With authorization of the Central Bank, individual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to trans- fer balances abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports included in the annual commodity budget are undertaken exclusively by state-owned enterprises without license. Importers are required 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 295 to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the annual commodity budget are sub- ject to licensing. Resident firms undertaking devel- opment projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual commodity budget and not available locally, and foreign exchange to pay for these imports is provided by the Government; similar imports by nonresidents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of January 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the exception of strategic goods3 retained by public cor- porations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provi- sions of the annual commodity budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits require Central Bank approval. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following Central Bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning, Trade, and Finance and, if imports are to be financed under letters of credit, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit without an advance import deposit equal to at least 20 percent of the value of the import. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and cus- toms surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 percent of the applicable customs duty. All products origi- nating in Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, provided that their domestic value added exceeds 43 percent. Private individuals are allowed These include mineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and furs. 3 These are 11 essential food items, medicine, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. to import goods on the commodity budget list up to a maximum value of LD 3,000 from Arab countries. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits speci- fied below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of their net sala- ries if their contracts specify that, in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations, the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas; and (2) nonresidents employed by the Libyan private sector are subject to the following limits: (a) agricul- tural and unskilled workers may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries up to a maximum of LD 40 a month, and (b) others may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries without monthly limit. In general, nonresidents may not transfer income derived from overtime work. Staff of United Nations agencies, embassies, consulates, and medi- cal institutions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign cur- rency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Additional amounts may be granted in special cir- cumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to cus- toms. Travelers leaving Libya may not take out Lib- yan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad) and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohib- ited. Exports of domestically produced vegetable oils are permitted. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Export Promotion Coun- cil established under Decision No. 523 of Septem- ber 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by providing information on demand conditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, as an incen- tive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Exporters do not need an export license for these exports but must register with the council and supply, on a regular basis, the relevant documentation on their exports. than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of for- eign staff employed on such projects may be trans- ferred on the basis described in the section on Payments for Invisibles above. Central Bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in indus- trial ventures set up after March 20,1970 is permitted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduc- tion of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Only Libyans may own real estate in Libya. Non- resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Resi- dents must obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Affairs and Interna- tional Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The invest- ment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Proceeds from Invisibles Gold All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlim- ited amounts, which they must declare to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the eco- nomic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 19. The margin within which the exchange rate may be allowed to fluctuate against the SDR was widened to 25 percent from 16 percent. Nonresident and Resident Accounts March 24. With authorization from the Central Bank, individual residents were allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lithuania is the Litas (plural: Litai), the external value of which is determined in the inter- bank foreign exchange market by market forces.1 The exchange rate of the litas for the U.S. dollar and the deutsche mark are determined by supply and demand conditions in the interbank foreign exchange market. Authorized banks quote exchange rates for other convertible currencies on the basis of their cross-rate relationships for the cur- rencies concerned on international markets. Autho- rized banks also quote buying and selling rates for the Russian ruble at varying rates. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar is calculated daily by the Bank of Lithuania (the central bank) on the basis of average buying and selling rates quoted by authorized banks; on December 31, 1993, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 3.9 per US$1. The Bank of Lithuania also calculates an accounting rate, which is used to value balance sheet items. Accounting rates for convertible currencies and for the currencies of the independent states of the former U.S.S.R. are calculated daily.2 Limits are placed on the net open positions of authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a bank- ing law delegating to the Bank of Lithuania the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. 1 Until the end of September 1992, both the Russian ruble and the general purpose coupon (talonas; plural talonai) introduced on May 1, 1992 were legal tender. On October 1, 1992, the Rus- sian ruble was declared a foreign currency, and the talonas became the sole legal tender, pending the introduction of the litas, the national currency. On June 25, 1993, the litas was intro- duced and the temporary currency, the talonas, was phased out over a period of 26 days, ending in Ju ly 1993. The talonas was converted into litas at the rate of 100:1. 2 The accounting rates for the convertible currencies are identi- cal to the middle rates on Tuesdays and at the end of each month, whereas the accounting rates for the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. are calculated by the Bank of L i thua- nia by using the cross rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the respective central banks. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the Bank of Lithuania. To date, 18 banks have been authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania, and they are divided into four categories, depending on the types of transactions they are permitted to conduct. The simplest type of license limits the operations to buy- ing and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). At present, eight banks have been granted a general license that allows them to offer a full range of banking services (including issuing letters of credit) in foreign exchange operations, and they are permitted to open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Lithuania maintains bilateral payments agreements may be effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.3 Settlements with all other countries may be made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks, and these accounts may be credited and debited without restriction. Nonresident individuals and representa- tive offices of foreign enterprises and diplomatic missions may open foreign exchange accounts at the authorized banks, and these accounts may be cred- ited and debited without restriction. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons. Imports subject to bilat- 3 At the end of December 1993, Lithuania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and the Slovak Republic. Most of these agreements, however, have become de facto inoperative. Corre- spondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania and the central banks of the independent states of the former U.S.S.R. (except Armenia and Georgia). These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Ruble-denomi- nated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the independent states of the former U.S.S.R. have been closed and are in the process of being settled. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 LITHUANIA eral trade agreements are allocated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. A tax at the uniform rate of 0.01 percent is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole pur- pose of collecting statistical information on trade. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated to Lithuania. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements. Export duties are levied on certain raw materials and selected products. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to any control or restriction. Capital Authorized banks may borrow abroad or extend loans in foreign currencies to residents and nonresi- dents without restriction. Resident firms may bor- row foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad with the approval of the Bank of Lithuania. Foreign direct investment is regulated by the Law of Foreign Investments promulgated in December 1990 and amended in February and June 1992. The law permits the State to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the com- pany must remain involved in the same type of business for at least one year under the new owner- ship. While firms with 100 percent foreign capital ownership are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the Government reserves the right to establish limits on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. For- eign investors are prohibited from operating in the defense industry, public utilities, and energy explo- ration. In joint ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is required to hold the majority of the shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insurance companies even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. The ownership of land by nonresidents in Lithua- nia is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits to 2 hectares of land in Vilnius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permitted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. The Law of Foreign Investments also guarantees the free repatriation of all after-tax profits as well as the invested capital, with no limitation on timing or amount. It also provides for important tax incen- tives. If the foreign investment was made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70 percent, that is, to 8.7 percent from 29 percent for five years. For another three years, the profit tax is reduced by 50 percent. If the investment is made between Janu- ary 1994 and December 1995, profits will be taxed by a rate reduced by 50 percent for six years. For joint ventures, these reductions are proportional to the foreign capital invested. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, or sell gold in any form in Lithuania. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Foreign exchange auctions were dis- continued. June 25. The national currency, the litas was intro- duced, replacing the temporary currency, the talo- nas, at the conversion rate of litas l=talonas 100. July 20. The litas became the sole legal tender in Lithuania. October 21. The interbank foreign exchange mar- ket began to operate. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. A surrender requirement of 25 percent was introduced on foreign exchange earnings of state enterprises. June 16. The surrender requirement for foreign exchange earnings of state enterprises was abolished. July 15. The export-licensing system was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Denar, the external value of which is determined freely in the exchange market. Buy- ing and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the National Bank of Macedonia, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the international market, the National Bank publishes rates for 22 currencies. On December 31, 1993, the midpoint exchange rate for the U.S. dollar published by the National Bank was Mden 44.4558 per US$1. The National Bank deals at the published midpoint rates plus or minus a mar- gin of 0.3 percent. At the end of each week, the average of the daily published rates is established for customs valuation purposes for the following week. There is no tax on the purchase or sale of for- eign exchange, and banks are free to set commis- sions for their services. Forward foreign exchange contracts for trade transactions are permitted. The exchange market operates at two levels— wholesale and retail. The wholesale level includes enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank, all of which may buy and sell foreign exchange in this market. The Government also participates in this market through the National Bank. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of for- eign exchange bureaus, which are owned and oper- ated by banks, enterprises, or natural persons. Foreign exchange bureaus may hold overnight foreign exchange positions equivalent to 60 percent of the pre- ceding day's foreign exchange purchases. Natural per- sons may purchase foreign currency from these bureaus without limit, subject to availability. Administration of Control The parliament has the authority to legislate laws governing foreign exchange and trade transactions. Certain changes in the trade regime may be made through government regulations. According to the Foreign Exchange Act and the National Bank Act, the National Bank is authorized to control foreign exchange operations of banks and other financial institutions. The Ministry of Finance l rThe former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the IMF on December 14,1992. is authorized to control foreign exchange and trade operations and the credit relations of enterprises abroad as well as other forms of business activities abroad, encompassing all enterprises that operate internationally. Certain foreign exchange control activities have been delegated to the participants in the foreign exchange market and the customs office. The Ministry of Foreign Relations administers the Foreign Trade Act and the Foreign Investments Act. Medium-term and long-term loans must be regis- tered with the National Bank as stipulated by the Foreign Credit Relations Act. This obligation does not apply to short-term loans, which are permitted without restriction. Prescription of Currency Residents of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in the former Yugo- slav Republic of Macedonia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad or for conversion into denars. Resident natural persons may open foreign exchange accounts in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Foreign exchange balances predating September 1, 1990 have de facto been frozen, but these deposits may be used to purchase socially owned apartments, socially owned business pre- mises, or shares in enterprises as part of the privati- zation process. In special cases (weddings, funerals, payments of health care costs), depositors are allowed to make withdrawals from their frozen deposits up to the equivalent of DM 1,000. With- drawals in foreign currency may be allowed to make payments abroad on presentation of appropriate documentation for medical treatment, including purchases of medicine, education, and airfares (air- fares have been temporarily restricted for budgetary reasons). Resident natural persons may not maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad or hold other financial assets abroad. In specific cases (e.g., enter- prises with foreign operations), enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the approval of the National Bank. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Imports and Import Payments Payments for authorized imports are not restricted. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 757, 787, and 820. In addition, transit trade through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is banned under UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 787 and 820. The import regime in operation during 1993 was largely inherited from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with a few changes made since independence (the liberalization of imports of wheat, flour, sugar, meat, and some other products). Under this regime, goods in 95 percent of import categories were freely importable; certain agricultural goods and metal products were subject to tariff protection, but practically all other imports were exempt from tariffs. Since January 1,1994, a new trade regime has been in effect. Under the new regime, goods in almost 98 percent of import catego- ries are importable without quota restrictions. Goods in approximately 2 percent of import categories are subject to quota restrictions that are designed to pro- tect domestic production; these products include cer- tain chemical and steel products, buses, and, for three months of the year, certain seasonal food prod- ucts. Customs duties are levied on imported goods; the rates of customs duties range from zero to 17 per- cent, with imports of crude oil and essential items subject to duty at a low rate (i.e., 1 percent on crude oil), 5 percent on raw materials and equipment, 10 percent on oil derivatives, and about 12-15 per- cent on consumer products. Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicine, are subject to licensing requirements for security or public health reasons. In 1993, the effective average rate of duty was about 10 percent. Payments for Invisibles Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange freely to make payments for invisibles on presentation of documentation showing the nature of the services bought abroad or transfers made, such as invoices and health declarations. products (sugar, flour, wheat, and soya) remain temporarily restricted to protect domestic supply. The exportation of a small number of items is banned for security, public health, or cultural rea- sons (for example, arms, drugs, historic artifacts). Exporters must sell their proceeds to importers within 4 business days, or use the proceeds for pay- ments abroad or deposit them in banks for a period of up to 90 days, af ter which they must sell their proceeds in the foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations as those applicable to merchandise exports. Capital Resident natural persons are not allowed to engage in borrowing or lending operations with nonresi- dents. Contracting of commercial credits by juridical persons is free of restrictions. Outward direct invest- ment requires approval from and registration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Banks may take foreign exchange positions subject to individual limits. Foreign direct investment in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is allowed except in a few sectors (e.g., arms production). Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or establish joint ventures. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not pro- duced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs duties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20 percent. Foreign inves- tors are exempt from the company income tax dur- ing the first three years of operation. All foreign investment registered with the Ministry of Foreign Relations is protected from nationalization. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of profits and dividends, provided that all financial obliga- tions within the country have been met. There are no regulations governing inward portfolio invest- ment. Outward portfolio investment by resident natural and juridical persons is not permitted. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are prohibited under UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 713, 757, 787, and 820. In addition, transit trade through the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is prohibited under UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 787 and 820. Under the trade regime in force since January 1,1994, the exportation of certain The importation and exportation of gold require approval of the National Bank. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly, with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement of cur- rencies in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagas- car (CBM) quotes the Malagasy franc exchange rates, which are adjusted on a daily basis against ten currencies.1 The authorized banks are not per- mitted to maintain an exchange position in any for- eign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1993, the mid- point rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the CBM was FMG 1,962.7 per US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the General Directorate of the Trea- sury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents; the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar; all outward investments; and inward direct investment. Some approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the extensive use of the Liberalized Imports System (SILI) for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all eco- nomic agents are allowed to import and receive the total amount of foreign exchange requested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports, which currently includes 59 customs nomenclatures is subject to administrative control, primarily for rea- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. sons of security and health. Since September 1,1988, private operators and state trading companies have been authorized to export all products, with the exception of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the CBM in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the foreign account in Malagasy francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a foreign account, they must be credited to a special blocked account, the balance of which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and residents are conducted through the enterprises' foreign accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks, which are required to transfer to the CBM foreign exchange credited by the enterprises to their foreign accounts. Imports and Import Payments Under the SILI, which was introduced on Febru- ary 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1, 1988, all economic agents listed in the trade register who are in good standing legally and with the tax administration may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the pre- vailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not required for imports financed with foreign exchange that has been surrendered to the CBM, and all administrative formalities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 MADAGASCAR are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to finance imports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abolished on May 10, 1988, and each commer- cial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision on the basis of its finan- cial evaluation of importers. In accordance with the provisions of Decree No. 92.424 (April 3, 1992) on the Regulations of Merchandise Imports and Exports, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except on 61 items in the customs nomenclature, mainly for reasons of health and security. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a simplified system of 16 rates (multiples of five), with the minimum rate set at 5 percent and the maximum at 70 percent. A temporary surcharge of 30 percent was levied on certain products to facili- tate the transition. All imports except those for which exemptions were granted in accordance with international treaties were made subject to a mini- mum rate of 5 percent on a collection basis. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1,1989, the tariffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level; the minimum tariff rate was raised to 10 percent, except on certain products (fer- tilizers, pesticides, pharmaceutical products and inputs, and optical glass). In addition, the Govern- ment reduced certain tariffs and the temporary sur- charge, which was lowered from 30 percent to 10 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. On January 1, 1990, the 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the maxi- mum tariff rate of 70 percent was applied to prod- ucts previously subject to the surcharge. In 1991, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 60 percent for all categories of merchandise. The Finance Law of 1991 lowered the maximum tariff rate further to 50 percent for a large number of products. The third stage of the reform, completed in 1992, concerned mainly the classification of imported goods into five categories, which are taxed at rates of 10 per- cent to 50 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance and Budget, which has delegated approval authority to the General Direc- torate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediar- ies, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted, except for agency fees (commissions de representa- tions), whose settlement is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister of Finance and Budget (Treasury General Directorate). Residents traveling as tourists may purchase for- eign exchange up to an annual limit equivalent to FMG 10,000 a person for every two-year period, irre- spective of the number of trips taken (FMG 5,000 for children under 19 years). Any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar mus t be surren- dered. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel is the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person, irre- spective of the number of trips made. Applications for additional foreign exchange must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Budget and may be approved for bona fide business trips and medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined. Limits are set for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. The transfer of dividends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are nat- ural or juridical persons has been fully liberalized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Foreigners working in Madagascar may transfer savings from wages and salaries upon presentation of the work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of net salary for bachelors and persons whose families reside in Madagascar; up to 60 percent for those whose fami- lies live outside Madagascar; and 100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagas- car. In all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed the equivalent of FMG 6,000 a person a month or its equivalent. This ceiling does not apply to expatriates working in enterprises operating under the Investment Code (Code d'investissement). Remittances for medical treatment abroad are per- mitted when properly documented. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 25,000 in Mala- gasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters listed in the trade register who are in good standing and have no outstanding tax ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 303 obligations may freely export their products (except vanilla) without restriction at prices nego- tiated directly between exporters and importers. Furthermore, the Government's quality control or certification requirement for exportable goods has been abolished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Certificates of quality on exports of cloves have also been abolished. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control itself is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certificate from the relevant government agency or, at the option of the exporter, from an internationally recognized specialized private company. For vanilla and cof- fee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For seafood and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarka- tion in the absence of an arrangement directly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in con- formity with international agreements. Since the 1990/91 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to negotiate and execute export contracts freely. The list of exports prohib- ited or subject to prior approval, including mineral products, flora, and fauna, was reduced by Decree No. 92.424 (April 3,1992). Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemp- tion is granted by the Ministry of Finance and Bud- get. Forty percent of export proceeds must be surrendered immediately to the CBM and the remaining balances utilized within 72 hours of repatriation or transferred to the CBM. Export pro- ceeds of enterprises operating in the free trade zone must be repatriated within 190 days of the date of shipment. Some large state enterprises are granted exceptions from the surrender requirements on a case-by-case basis and are permitted to retain all their earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income or pro- ceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency as means of payment and up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and non- residents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of for- eign companies in Madagascar, as well as corre- sponding transfers, require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Foreign direct investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, includ- ing those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsid- iaries abroad of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Budget. The total or partial liquida- tion of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance. Both the making and the liqui- dation of direct investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the minister within 20 days of each transaction. Participation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company is not considered direct investment. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance and Budget. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Budget. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the Min- istry of Finance and Budget, although loans con- tracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amorti- zation payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Budget. In accordance with the Investment Code of December 29, 1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MADAGASCAR benefiting from preferential treatment under the code are exempted from import taxes exceeding 10 percent on materials used in the production pro- cess. Enterprises operating in the industrial free trade zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of duty and tax. from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold-mining title or a gold-washing permit or rights are free to sell the gold recovered to any approved collector. How- ever, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. Gold Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold within the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from authorized holders of gold-washing rights. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Minis- try of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the CBM, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travel- ers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a per- son. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 31. The system of imports without pay- ment (importation sans cession de devises) was sus- pended temporarily. Imports of certain luxury goods were banned. Exports and Export Proceeds January 31. All export proceeds were required to be repatriated within 90 days of the date of ship- ment. (Beginning March 1, 1994, failure to repatri- ate proceeds from exports shipped before January 1, 1994 would be subject to a fine of up to 300 per- cent of proceeds not repatriated, and licenses would be withdrawn from exporters who fail to meet the requirement.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of February 28, 2994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, the external rate of which is determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Authorized dealer banks may buy and sell foreign currencies at freely determined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients, and foreign exchange brokers are authorized to match orders from buyers and sellers of foreign exchange on an agency basis. The Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) holds weekly (wholesale) fixing sessions at which offers to buy and sell foreign exchange from authorized partici- pants are matched to arrive at a clearing exchange rate. Authorized participants at the fixing are authorized dealer banks, foreign exchange brokers, foreign exchange bureaus (selling only), the RBM, companies registered under the Companies Act, and licensed enterprises meeting operational requirements of the fixing sessions. At the end of February 1993, the RBM's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 6.6113 and MK 6.6347, respectively, per US$1. The exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, and the Zimba- bwe dollar are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade and Industry (MTI), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any con- vertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Blocked accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior authorization of the exchange control authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the balances of blocked accounts to be invested in an approved manner. On application to the exchange control authorities, account holders may normally transfer the interest on blocked account balances to their country of residence. Residents receiving foreign exchange regularly from abroad, including exporters, may maintain for- eign currency accounts with authorized dealers, and balances in the accounts may be used to make autho- rized payments or transfers without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general license system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTI. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military-type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, flick knives, explo- sives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild ani- mals, live fish, cassava, and copyrighted articles. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 MALAWI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application and are normally valid for six months. Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, without referring to the RBM, for payments for virtually all applications to import goods. When imports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must submit applications for for- eign exchange. Such applications must be accompa- nied by relevant importation and customs documents. Depending on means of payment (for example, letters of credit), commercial banks may require counterpart deposits. This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations. Prepayment for imports is allowed with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Import- ers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 percent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value, including cus- toms tariffs. The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 per- cent to 100 percent for luxury goods. company transfers; blocked funds; emigration; pre- payments on imports of goods and services on open account; freight and clearing charges; bonuses; and leave pay. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on con- tracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence or any country of their choice. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities4 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds are not required to be surrendered, except 10 percent of proceeds from exports of tea, tobacco, and sugar. Specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.5 Under a duty drawback scheme, customs tariffs paid on imports of certain inputs used by manufactured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that travelers may import, but they may not import more than MK 200 in Malawi currency notes and coins. Payments for Invisibles Capital Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without ref- erence to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, such as private travel, education, and medical treatment. The basic exchange allowances for each trip abroad are $3,000 for private travel (holiday); $5,000 for business travel; and $4,000 for medical purposes. Foreign exchange in excess of the limits will be granted upon verification of expenses. There is no limit on the frequency of trips that may be taken. Travelers may take out, in addition to their basic travel allow- ance, up to MK 200 in Malawi currency. The following remittances require prior foreign exchange approval from the Exchange Control Department of the RBM: dividends or profits; man- agement and technical fees; insurance and reinsur- ance premiums; amortization and interest; inter- 3 The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufactured goods. Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are con- trolled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are per- mitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original invest- ment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. 4 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 5 The cess is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally and on hides and skins at the rate of 2 percent of export value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 307 Residents may not purchase any foreign securi- ties without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capi- tal abroad, and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Upon departure, persons over 50 years, whether single or married, are allowed to exchange the equivalent of up to MK 15,000. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 3,000. The balance of emigrants' funds is blocked, but on the first anni- versary of their departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emigration allowance may be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. However, at the discretion of the Exchange Control Department of the RBM, emigrant allowances in excess of the stipulated amount may be taken out. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consulta- tion with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1993 Exports and Export Proceeds May 7. Export proceeds must be repatriated to Malawi within three working days of the date of payment by the importers, and proceeds must be paid within two months of the date of export. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 7. A new exchange arrangement based on an interbank market was introduced. The exchange rate would be determined on the basis of supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. Authorized dealer banks would be permit- ted to buy and sell foreign currency at freely deter- mined market exchange rates. Foreign exchange bureaus would be authorized to conduct spot trans- actions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients, and foreign exchange brokers would be authorized to match orders from buyers and sellers of foreign exchange on an agency basis. The RBM would hold a weekly (wholesale) fixing session at which offers to buy and sell foreign exchange from authorized participants would be matched to arrive at a clear- ing exchange rate. Authorized participants at the fixing would be authorized dealer banks, foreign exchange brokers, foreign exchange bureaus (sell- ing only), the RBM, companies registered under the Companies Act, and licensed enterprises meeting operational requirements of the fixing sessions. Resident and Nonresident Accounts February 7. Residents earning foreign exchange on a regular basis were allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized banks and use balances in the accounts for authorized payments and transfers. Imports and Import Payments February 7. The negative list for import commodi- ties was abolished. Payments for Invisibles February 7. The limits on travel allowances were increased, and the limit on the number of trips per- mitted to be taken was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds February 7. The surrender requirement was abol- ished, except for the proceeds from exports of tea, tobacco, and sugar; 10 percent of the proceeds from these commodities would be required to be sold to the RBM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. Its exter- nal value is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes only to main- tain orderly market conditions and to avoid exces- sive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit against a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malay- sia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. Rates for all other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 31,1993, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was RM 2.7010 per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro), to all customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) and are free to quote the rates. Forward exchange contracts may be in respect of both com- mercial and financial transactions. Forward cover for the commercial banks is usually provided for up to six months at market rates for both purchases and sales. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11,1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the author- ity for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Depart- ment of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is administered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Malaysia notified the Fund on June 23, 1993 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than those of Israel and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene- gro). Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro) must be obtained according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract but within six months of the date of expor- tation. Payments may be made in any foreign cur- rency except those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or in ringgit from an external account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Nonresident Accounts Ringgit accounts of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as external accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely per- mitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above RM 10,000 if such payments are made by residents.1 Proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be trans- ferred to any other resident or nonresident account or converted into any currency except those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Accounts of residents of these two countries are designated as Israeli accounts and lrThe limit was raised to RM 50,000, effective February 1,1994. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 309 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) accounts, respectively. All debits and cred- its to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls for the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Import licenses are required for certain goods as specified in Cus- toms (Prohibition of Imports) Order No. 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when required. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to a quota and require an import license that details the quan- titative restrictions. The movement of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion of an animal from all countries require an import license. Imports of primates require an import license, subject to approval from the Depart- ment of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued at up to RM 10,000 from any country other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) may be made without restriction after exchange control requirements are met.2 Payments in excess of the above limit require completion of forms and approval from any authorized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufac- turing sector are eligible for preferential duty treat- ment as follows: (1) for the production of goods for the domestic market, raw materials that are not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs duty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market may be further exempted from this duty if they comply with specific requirements regarding equity participation, management, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of taxable goods may be acquired free, subject to conditions as specified in the Sales Tax Act of 1972; (4) for companies that manufacture products for the export market, full exemption from customs duty is granted when local raw materials are not available or are not competitive in price or quality; (5) all customs duties and sales taxes on imported machinery and equipment that are unavailable locally and are directly used in the manufacturing process can be considered for exemption; and (6) manufacturers may claim cus- toms duties and sales tax drawbacks on imported raw materials or components that are incorporated into finished products and exported within 12 months of the date of import. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro) may be made without restric- tion. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of RM 10,000.3 There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes in the immediate possession of a traveler. The exportation of ringgit currency by any other means requires prior approval from the Controller of For- eign Exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Exports of logs from Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah are restricted. The customs areas and export control systems among the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms must be com- pleted for exports valued at more than RM 20,000 f.o.b. per shipment (for exports to Indonesia, the maximum is RM 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial con- tract, but no longer than six months after the date of exportation. This regulation does not apply to com- mercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange and reimported into Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certifi- cate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Cus- 2 The limit was increased to RM 50,000, effective February 1, 1994. 3 The limit was raised to RM 50,000, effective February 1,1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MALAYSIA toms (Prohibition of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The primary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate the timeliness of exchange receipts from invisibles. No limitation is imposed on the importation of cur- rency notes by a traveler. The importation of domestic bank notes by other than authorized banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Capital The following inward investments, covered by the guidelines issued on February 20,1974 (regard- ing the acquisition of assets, mergers, and take- overs), require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) proposed acquisi- tion of any substantial fixed assets by foreign inter- ests; (2) proposed acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and busi- nesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, man- agement agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any com- pany or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceed- ing RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a for- eign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (1) the total of the foreign entity's new investment exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new investment exceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any for- eign entity increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new investment by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities increases to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company to more than RM 5 million on incorporation, the holding of foreign entities constitutes more than 15 percent of the voting power, or the joint holding of several for- eign entities constitutes 30 percent or more of the voting power of the company concerned. Foreign investors are permitted to hold equity of up to 100 percent if they export 80 percent or more of their production. For projects exporting between 51 percent and 79 percent of their production, for- eign equity ownership of up to 79 percent is permit- ted, depending on such factors as the level of technology, spin-off effects, size of the investment, location, value added, and the use of local raw mate- rials and components. For projects exporting between 20 percent and 50 percent of their produc- tion, foreign equity ownership of between 30 percent and 51 percent is allowed. For projects exporting less than 20 percent of their production, foreign equity ownership is allowed up to a maximum of 30 percent. For the purpose of equity determination, export sales are defined as excluding sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses so as to promote greater links between multinational cor- porations and domestic industries. Notwithstanding the above, for projects produc- ing high-technology products or priority products for the domestic market, as determined by the Gov- ernment from time to time, foreign equity owner- ship of up to 100 percent may be allowed. These equity guidelines do not apply to new projects in certain sectors where foreign equity levels have been determined. Foreign equity ownership of up to 60 percent is allowed for domestic sales (includ- ing sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses) for the following sectors: press work- ing and stamping industry, plastic components for the electrical and electronic industry, plastic com- pounds and masterbatch, electroplating, heat treat- ment activities, fabrication of furniture components such as nylon chair bases and arms, foundry prod- ucts, connectors, transformers and coils, hot stamp- ing, spray painting and silk screen printing services, and polished granite and marble slabs and tiles. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permitted. To ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 311 determine the percentage for these projects, various criteria (e.g., level of investment, technology, and risk involved; availability of Malaysian expertise in the area of exploration, mining, and processing of the minerals concerned; degree of integration; and level of value added involved) are taken into con- sideration. For new hotel and tourist projects, for- eign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date the operation begins, after which such ownership must be reduced to 51 percent. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro), provided that the resident concerned has not obtained any domestic credit. If investors have any domestic credit, they must obtain prior approval from the Controller of For- eign Exchange for their investment abroad. Com- mercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the econ- omy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permitted to have a short or a long open foreign exchange position, ranging from RM 10 million to RM 150 million, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above RM 10,000.4 Nonresident-controlled companies in Malaysia are permitted to borrow up to RM 10 mil- lion without exchange control approval, provided that total credit facilities obtained by the borrower in Malaysia do not exceed RM 10 million and that the borrower's corporate group obtains at least 60 percent of its total domestic credit facilities, including trade-related facilities, from Malaysian- owned financial institutions. All applications for credit facilities by nonresidents and nonresi- dent-controlled companies to finance the acquisi- tion of immovable property in Malaysia require the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. However, effective December 22,1993, nonresi- dent-controlled companies involved in manufactur- ing activities and tourism-related activities have been allowed to obtain freely domestic credit facili- ties to finance the acquisition and/or the develop- ment of immovable property required for their own 4 The limit was increased to RM 50,000, effective February 1, 1994. business activities, provided that their total domes- tic borrowing, including the property loan, is within the permissible limit of RM 10 million and that it complies with the 60:40 ratio requirement. Nonresidents who have valid work permits are also allowed to borrow freely from domestic financial institutions to finance the purchase of residential property for their own accommodation, provided that the total domestic borrowing for each of them does not exceed RM 100,000 in aggregate. As a mat- ter of policy, applications from nonresidents and nonresident-controlled companies to obtain any domestic financing solely for property acquisition and development purposes are not approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Borrowing in foreign currencies from nonresidents is freely permitted up to the aggregate of RM 1 million including financial guarantees. For aggregate amounts exceeding RM 1 million, however, permis- sion has to be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds will be used. Offshore guarantees for amounts obtained from licensed offshore banks without recourse to Malaysian residents, whether denomi- nated in ringgit or foreign currency, do not require the permission of the Controller. Loans in foreign curren- cies in excess of the equivalent of RM 200,000 and up to the equivalent of RM 1 million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Foreign borrow- ing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, which is not usually granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by commer- cial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided that payments are made in accordance with the approved terms and conditions of the loans. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia may lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Residents are allowed to borrow in foreign currency from the commercial and merchant banks in Malaysia only up to the equivalent of RM 1 million to meet their financial requirements. The Controller's permission is required for such bor- rowing in foreign currency exceeding RM 1 million or its equivalent. Approval is readily granted if the loan is to be used for productive investment within the country and the resident borrower is judged to be able to generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the loan. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempt from the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the exportation of Malaysian goods and pro- ceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, may be maintained with associate companies out- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 MALAYSIA side Malaysia, provided that monthly returns are submitted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. In addition, companies located in free trade zones or those licensed as manufacturing warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of For- eign Exchange, offset their export proceeds through intercompany accounts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the sup- ply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are free to deal (purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in any state or form with any person, except residents of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Changes During 1993 Prescription of Currency September 28. All exchange control restrictions gov- erning transactions with South Africa were lifted. Capital December 22. Nonresident-controlled companies involved in manufacturing and tourism-related activities were freely allowed to obtain domestic credit facilities to finance the acquisition and /or the development of immovable property required for their own business activities. In addition, non- residents with valid work permits were allowed to borrow freely from domestic financial institutions to purchase resident property for their own accommodation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Monetary Author- ity (MMA) has followed a floating exchange rate pol- icy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply conditions in the market, although the MMA may intervene in the mar- ket when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1993 was Rf 11.105 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no restrictions on maintaining bank accounts in foreign currency. Foreign currency must be converted to rufiyaa through a bank or a licensed money changer who is authorized by the MMA to exchange foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq, Israel, South Africa, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Minis- try of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar) are imported mainly by the state trading organization. All goods may be imported under an open general license (OGL) sys- tem. Licenses are issued on application. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. or c. & f. value of imports, as appropriate. Staple commodities (rice, wheat, flour, and sugar), essential medicines specified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and textbooks specified by the Ministry of Education are exempt from duties, as are certain products imported for per- sonal use. Duty rates on daily necessities and essen- tials range from 5 percent to 20 percent; on items essential for the development of domestic industries, from 10 percent to 20 percent; on items that will enhance the economic welfare of the country, from 25 percent to 35 percent; and on items considered to be luxuries and to impede the development of domes- tic industries, from 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign currency without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Locals and foreigners are encouraged to fish in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) outside a 75-mile zone from the shoreline, which is reserved for tradi- tional fishing. They must pay the Government a roy- alty on fish they catch in the EEZ. Exports of fish and fish products (except ambergris) caught by local resi- dents are exempt from duties. Exports of fish caught by foreigners and joint-venture parties are subject to an export duty; re-exports are exempt from the duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travel- ers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign inves- tors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment in the form of either cash or capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted freely. Exemption from duties 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MALDIVES and taxes other than the tourism tax may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. any form, at home or abroad, and the importation and exportation of gold are not restricted. Gold Changes During 1993 Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The offi- cial buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are offi- cially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies con- cerned. The banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transfers are sub- ject to a stamp tax. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effected through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of import payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are nei- ther official schemes for currency swaps nor a guar- anteed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Economy and Finance has sole authority in exchange control matters but has dele- gated certain exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Imports and exports are registered with the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may not be credited with CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. As the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO bank notes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by autho- rized banks' foreign correspondents. Foreign accounts in francs may not be debited, without prior authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing requirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel and South Africa, which are prohibited, are required only to be regis- tered, and permits are issued automatically. A new, revised tariff regime took effect on February 26, 1991. Under this regime, products are classified into seven categories and subject to the same rate; under the previous system, about 4,000 categories were subject to different rates. With the exception of petroleum products, tariff rates are ad valorem and based on the c.i.f. value; under the old regime, a number of taxes were levied on the basis of administrative values (valeurs mercuriales). 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 MALI Petroleum products are subject to a variable levy, based on administrative values established with reference to prices charged by refineries in Dakar and Abidjan. Imports are subject to additional taxes, ranging from 7.5 percent to 55 percent. (These additional taxes were temporarily suspended on January 28,1994.) Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are subject to approval. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; they may take out amounts that exceed this limit in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentia- tion by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, cor- responding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resi- dent financial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and busi- ness travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resi- dent travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travel- ers, regardless of destination, must declare in writ- ing, at the time of departure, all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in their name, subject to documentation that they used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or other foreign exchange to purchase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exporta- tion of foreign bank notes above these ceilings and other means of payment issued in Mali requires documentation demonstrating either the importa- tion of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances abroad for family maintenance, education allow- ances, and medical treatment, and transfers of prof- its or dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized intermediaries when the appropriate documentation is presented. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate of registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. However, they must declare the amounts they bring in. Capital Capital movements between Mali and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 317 Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from these countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above) and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A new investment code was adopted on January 1, 1991, which simplified procedures for foreign and domestic investors to obtain preferen- tial treatment with respect to domestic taxes for investments that meet specific criteria on employ- ment creation, domestic content of production, location, and value of investment. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Mali (and the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU)) sus- pended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BCEAO) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Following this decision, WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provi- sions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the member countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits on the amount of bank notes that travelers may take out (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes for the equiva- lent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). They may take out amounts in excess of this limit in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations raised the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourist travel, to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uni- form ceiling of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministries of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel to outside the WAMU countries; and (5) the new regulations introduced, for all WAMU countries, a uniform requirement that resi- dent travelers must declare at customs and surren- der within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. The new provision introduced also requires that nonresident travelers declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of pay- ment other than bank notes issued abroad and reg- istered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The regulations raised to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket consisting of the pound ster- ling, the U.S. dollar, and the European currency unit (ECU).1 The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest avail- able market quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currency components of the basket (the ECU component is computed on the basis of its composition currency). The latest available market quotations used are usually those available through the Reuters Service at the time markets open for business in Malta. In dealings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied to the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar were US$2.52774 and US$2.53406, respectively, per Lm l. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other cur- rencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these cur- rencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional for large amounts and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except for a subsidy in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling provided temporarily by the Central Bank to tour operators from the United Kingdom and Ireland. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. Any forward contract con- cluded between a bank and a customer must be accompanied by a similar contract between that bank and the Central Bank. The forward facilities offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are intended to provide cover for firm con- tractual commitments involving the importation and exportation of goods and services. However, in certain cases the Central Bank may also permit for- ward facilities to be offered for other current account transactions as long as they are not under- taken for speculative purposes. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange rate risk entailed in its forward contracts with commercial banks. The Cen- tral Bank also provides forward cover directly to government departments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malta, as agent for the Minister of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Direc- tor of Imports and Internal Trade in the Ministry of Finance administers trade controls. Approval author- ity for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which may also give or renew guarantees and indem- nities in connection with payments made under dele- gated authorities. In the case of nonresidents, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri, foreign currency, or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an external account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri held in an external account or in any foreign currency. A bilateral trade and payments agreement is maintained with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; outstanding balances are settled in con- vertible currencies. 1 Investment income flows of the banking system are excluded from current account transactions for the purpose of calculating the currency weights. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 319 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign currencies or Maltese liri in external accounts with the autho- rized banks. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments from residents to non- residents with transfers from other external accounts belonging to nonresidents, with proceeds from sales of gold or foreign currency (including bank notes), and with interest due on balances in the accounts. External accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for transfers to other external accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Subject to exchange control permission, compa- nies controlled by nonresidents may maintain for- eign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for the importation of items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons, as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as lace and gold and silver fili- gree. Other products may be imported without restriction under open general licenses (OGL). The importation of barley, maize, and hard and soft wheat is undertaken only by a state-owned enter- prise. Imports of boneless beef are also subject to government monopoly but are expected to be liber- alized in 1994. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form for imports over Lm 20,000 and related import license, where appli- cable, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, export-oriented companies may retain foreign exchange earnings for a maximum period of four months to make payments for imports that are connected to their exporting busi- ness; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities if the amounts involved exceed the limits delegated to the autho- rized banks. These limitations are indicative and are intended to prevent capital outflows. In the case of leisure and business travel, there are no restric- tions on payments for accommodation and trans- portation purchased in Malta or abroad with credit cards or Euro-checks. There are, however, limita- tions on the amount of foreign currency (cash and traveler's checks) residents may take abroad. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance equivalent to Lm 2,500. Business travelers are granted an exchange allocation equiv- alent to Lm 200 a person a day. Amounts in excess of the above limits may be granted upon submis- sion of documentary proof of need. The allowance for educational expenses is unlimited.3 Remittances for cash gifts and family maintenance may be made up to an annual maximum of Lm 250 a person and Lm 2,000 a person, respectively, directly through commercial banks. Remittances above these limits require exchange control approval. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires per- mission from the Central Bank; permission is invariably granted after compliance with certain- formalities.4 The Insurance Business Act of 1981 requires that life insurance be contracted only in Maltese currency with duly licensed insurance companies. Nonresident travelers may export foreign cur- rency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry; they may export up to Lm 25 a person in Maltese notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all products may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to countries in the European Union require licenses for administrative purposes. Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment. Export- ers may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks for up to four months to make import payments connected with their exporting business. Export trade is supported by the Government in a variety of ways. Manufacturing exports and tour- ism benefit from extensive investment and training incentives provided by the Government. The Malta Export Trade Corporation acts as a technical unit and support agency for the development and pro- motion of trade (mainly exports) in both goods and 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as persons who are living in Malta and have either lived in Malta for at least three years or intend to continue living in Malta for at least three years. 4As one of these formalities, the Central Bank required certifi- cation that certain obligations in contracts with domestic banks that lent to the company have not been breached. This certifica- tion requirement is no longer necessary from January 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MALTA services. Malta is the beneficiary of trade conces- sions granted by its main trade partners. The Asso- ciation Agreement with the EU signed in 1970 guarantees that manufactured products originating in Malta enter the EU duty free. Exports also benefit from Generalized System of Preference treatment granted by Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States, and the European Free Trade Association. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes. Without the authorization of the Minister of Finance, only Lm 50 in notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta may be imported. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents must be approved in advance by the Central Bank. Due regard is given to the purpose of the investment and the potential benefits accruing to the local economy. The remittance of liquidation proceeds from such investments also requires approval from the Central Bank; such approval is always granted, contingent on compliance with cer- tain formalities, such as the submission of docu- mentary evidence of the original investment. Exchange control approval is required for residents to issue or transfer securities to nonresidents. Pur- chases by nonresidents of financial instruments listed on the Malta Stock Exchange do not require such approval. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non- residents) Act of 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,5 with the excep- tion of certain special cases related mainly to eco- nomic development. Nonresidents are allowed to acquire immovable property in Malta only for their own use, on the condition that the cost of property to be acquired is not less than Lm 15,000. All transfers abroad of a capital nature by resi- dents require approval from the Central Bank 5 For the purposes of this act, the term nonresidents includes individuals who are not residing in Malta but excludes Maltese citizens living abroad and foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (1) it is registered outside Malta, (2) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (3) 25 percent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresident per- son, or (4) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, con- trolled by one or more nonresident persons. unless they fall under the authority delegated to authorized banks. Applications for direct invest- ment overseas are considered on their own merits. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is permit- ted by the Central Bank under certain conditions: the resident must be over 18 and must not invest more than Lm 2,500 a year. Capital receipts repatriated by residents must be either surrendered to an authorized bank for con- version into domestic currency or held in the form of an interest-earning foreign currency account with an authorized bank. Residents are permitted to hold foreign currency in the form of cash up to a maximum limit equivalent to Lm 1,000. Although applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad are not usually permitted, the Central Bank considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to switch financial investments already held overseas into real estate assets situated outside Malta. Foreign nationals who have been residing in Malta and are taking up residence abroad are nor- mally allowed to transfer all of their assets to their new country of residence. Emigrating Maltese nationals may transfer all assets abroad without limit. Banks other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta (that is, offshore banks) are restricted on the amount of their foreign asset portfolio. This limit is exclusive of foreign assets held to back foreign currency liabilities. Commercial banks may extend loans in foreign cur- rencies to residents up to an amount equivalent to a proportion of their foreign currency liabilities. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and acquire jewelry but must obtain per- mission from the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The impor- tation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genuine numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for the importa- tion of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Sub- ject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion solely for the use of jewelers and other industrial users. The exportation of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 321 Changes During 1993 Administration of Control January 1. The government monopoly on imports of sugar, salt, evaporated milk, boneless beef, soy- bean oil, and cement was discontinued, and the pri- vate sector was allowed to import these goods; wheat, barley, and maize remain under government monopoly. The items removed from the state monopoly were subjected to customs duties rang- ing from 25 percent to 50 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The list of goods subject to import pro- hibitions under the Local Manufactures (Promo- tion) Act (1989) was shortened and included only handmade lace and gold and silver filigree. Tempo- rary import levies were imposed on goods removed from the prohibited list. A plan to abolish import levies that are imposed in addition to the applicable tariff rate was announced. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The system of foreign exchange allow- ance for private travel based on each trip was replaced with a maximum annual allowance of Lm 2,500. The daily allowance for business travel was increased to Lm 200 a day, and the maximum limit of Lm 2,000 for each trip was removed. February 1. The 10 percent levy on travel services was replaced with a 10 percent tax on the price of tickets for travel originating in Malta. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The period during which exporters are allowed to retain foreign exchange in a deposit account with local banks to make import payments connected with exporting business was lengthened to ten weeks. Capital January 1. The limit of Lm 15,000 that emigrants may transfer abroad was eliminated. January 1. Commercial banks were permitted to lend foreign exchange held in their deposits to domestic borrowers. February 1. The 10 percent tax on portfolio invest- ment abroad by residents was abolished. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments March 3. Used motor cars were exempted from import-licensing control. April 18. Imports of evaporated milk were removed from state monopoly. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Approval authority for the transfer of funds abroad to other family members was dele- gated to local commercial banks for amounts not exceeding Lm 2,000. January 1. The requirement of an auditor's certifi- cate for the transfer of profits and dividends to non- residents was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The period during which export pro- ceeds are allowed to be retained in foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks was extended to four months. Capital January 1. The maximum annual amount that a resident over 18 years of age can invest in foreign currency was raised from Lm 1,000 to Lm 2,500 annually. January 1. The maximum amount of foreign cur- rency that a resident may keep in his or her posses- sion was raised to Lm 1,000 from Lm 50. January 1. Proceeds from life insurance policies or from compensation awards for disability and simi- lar cases became fully eligible for investment over- seas without exchange control approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. Dollar.1 There is no central mon- etary institution and there are no exchange control regulations. The authorities do not buy or sell for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers. These com- mercial banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Forward transactions may be conducted through these com- mercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Republic of the Marshall Islands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 21, 1992. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be settled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to import-licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied under the Import Duties Act of 1989. Specific duties are lev- ied at the following rates: cigarettes, 50 cents per pack (of 20); carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, 25 cents per can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); beer and malt beverages, 50 cents per can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); spirits and distilled alcoholic bever- ages, $25 per U.S. gallon; wines, $15 per U.S. gallon; gasoline, 25 cents per U.S. gallon; propane, 3 cents !The Marshall Islands must consult the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. per pound; jet fuel, 15 cents per U.S. gallon; and ker- osene, 5 cents per U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties range from 5 percent to 75 percent. With the excep- tion of food items, medicines, building materials, and heavy machinery, which carry a rate of 5 percent, most other products are subject to a duty at the rate of 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, and there are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing, processing, and exportation of copra and copra by-products are solely conducted by the government-owned Tobo- lar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are required to submit applica- tions to the Cabinet and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. The Cabinet has the authority to formulate policies regarding incen- tives and priorities for foreign direct investment. All other inward and outward capital transfers are unrestricted with the exception that commercial banks cannot transfer abroad more than 25 percent of deposits received from Marshallese citizens. Changes During 1993 Capital October 8. The 1987 Banking Act, Section 62, was amended to restrict commercial banks from trans- ferring abroad more than 25 percent of deposits received from Marshallese citizens, including domestic corporations and the authorities. The amendment does not prevent a depositor from transferring any deposits abroad. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' rela- tive importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the international foreign exchange market, as published by Reuters, are used to determine the ouguiya's daily exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 16 other currencies,1 including those used in the bas- ket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these curren- cies as published by Reuters. On December 31, 1993, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 124.16 per US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied to pur- chases and sales through commercial bank accounts. The Central Bank of Mauritania sells foreign cur- rency notes and traveler's checks only for official travel and for other purposes judged to be excep- tional; commissions of 1.75 percent are applied to purchases and sales involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are free to set their exchange rates for foreign currency notes and traveler's checks, which they may buy on a no-questions-asked basis. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration. This exchange rate is also applied to remittances by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 323 Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has dele- gated to authorized banks the power to conduct trans- actions through convertible ouguiya accounts that it has approved and to sell foreign currency notes and traveler's checks to meet bona fide invisible payments up to specified limits. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange control approval from the Central Bank. Special regimes apply to the imports of government entities and state enterprises. A tax of 3 percent is levied on interna- tional trade to finance the collection of statistics. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: con- vertible ouguiya accounts and convertible foreign currency accounts. Convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited only with (1) transfers from other convertible ouguiya accounts, (2) 15 percent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and (3) 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from exports by qualifying enterprises. These accounts may be debited in foreign currency only for expenses relating to exporters' production activi- ties. Convertible foreign currency accounts may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency and transfers from other convertible for- eign currency accounts; they may be debited for any payment without approval from the Central Bank, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MAURITANIA Imports and Import Payments Payments for Invisibles Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special autho- rizations from the Ministry of Commerce are per- mitted to engage in import transactions. Importer-exporter cards must be renewed every year. Debtors in arrears with the banking system cannot have their cards renewed. Prepayment of the minimum turnover tax (TCA) in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except for imports directly financed from abroad. Import permits are auc- tioned monthly by the Central Bank. Only holders of importer-exporter cards, public enterprises, and other special enterprises can participate in the auc- tions. Permits are valid for one month. After buying the permit at an auction, the importer is entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange but not earlier than ten days before shipment of goods by foreign supplier if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the pay- ment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. There is a general custom duty rate of 15 percent and a reduced rate of 5 percent that applies to selected goods. Certain capital goods and various consumer goods, such as tea, salt, and medicines, are exempt. All imports from the West African Eco- nomic Community (WAEC) that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt, as are some imports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the European Union (EU). In addition to the cus- toms duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5 percent to 166 percent (with various exemp- tions); a TCA is levied at a minimum rate of 10 percent and a maximum rate of 20 percent (with various exemptions); and a regional cooperation tax is levied on certain industrial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of import duties that are levied on other imports. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. There are no limits on the acquisition and transfer of foreign exchange through the free mar- ket in bank notes and traveler's checks for travel, medical treatment, and study abroad. However, requests exceeding UM 15,000 per day of stay abroad must be submitted to the Central Bank. Other payments for invisibles must be approved by the Central Bank. Foreigners working in Mauritania may transfer savings from their salaries up to vary- ing percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards and holders of special authorization from the Ministry of Commerce are permitted to engage in export trans- actions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 20,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must submit to the Central Bank for approval "Certificates for Export" on which they spec- ify the quantity, value, and destination of the goods to be exported, and they must undertake to repatri- ate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be longer than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company. Cer- tain enterprises are allowed to retain 15 percent of export proceeds on foreign exchange accounts main- tained at domestic banks. A tax is levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 8 percent to 20 percent for specialized fisheries and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and lobster. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents for services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Authorized banks may buy foreign currency notes and traveler's checks on a no-questions-asked basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 325 Only authorized banks may hold foreign exchange notes and traveler's checks. Residents and nonresi- dent Mauritanians can freely import foreign exchange notes and traveler's checks, but they must exchange them at an authorized bank within 15 days of arrival. Nonresident non-Mauritanians must declare imported foreign currency notes and trav- eler's checks in excess of $2,000; they can re-export the declared amount deducted by the equivalent of UM 10,000 per day of stay. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and between Mauritania and South Africa are pro- hibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Residents must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to invest abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Mauritania and Mauritanian direct invest- ments abroad3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days of receipt of the declaration. The full or par- tial liquidation of inward or outward investments must also be declared. Both the making and the liq- uidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauri- tania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, as does bor- rowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 provides for various benefits for private investments in Mauri- tania and stipulates that profits and dividends accru- ing from these investments can be transferred freely. 2 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Mauritania. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The preferential exchange rate applied to remittances by Mauritanian workers abroad was abolished. Nonresident Accounts August 8. Nonresident Mauritanians were allowed to open convertible ouguiya accounts with authorized banks without prior central bank authorization. November 24. Nonresident Mauritanians were allowed to open foreign currency accounts with authorized banks without prior central bank authorization. Administration of Control December 29. Monopoly on imports of sugar by the National Import Export Corporation was abolished. Imports and Import Payments February 21. A system of import permit auction was introduced. Auction would be held once a month, and the buyer of import permits would be entitled to purchase foreign exchange ten days after shipment of goods by suppliers if documentary credit were opened or after eight days of payment due date if the goods have already arrived. April 13. Issuance and renewal procedures for the importer-exporter card were simplified. Payments for Invisibles March 30. Limits on allocations of foreign exchange notes and traveler's checks for travel, medical treatment, and study abroad were elimi- nated. Requests exceeding UM 15,000 a day of stay abroad, however, must be submitted to the Central Bank for approval. September 29. Rules on the importation of foreign exchange notes and traveler's checks were simpli- fied and liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Mauritius's major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (the central bank), with asymmetrical margins amounting to 0.125 per- cent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and to 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 per- cent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in French francs. Rates are obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On Decem- ber 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 27.5388 and Mau Rs 27.6422, respectively, per £stg. 1; Mau Rs 18.6324 and Mau Rs 18.7024, res- pectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 3.1604 and Mau Rs 3.1743, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars at rates based on those quoted by the Bank of Mauri- tius. Spreads allowed between the buying and sell- ing rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in pounds sterling, 1.25 percent for U.S. dollars, 1.6 percent for French francs, 2.25 per- cent for Japanese yen and Swiss francs, and 2.375 percent for deutsche mark. Commercial banks' buy- ing and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. A transfer tax of 5 percent is applied to most authorized outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds, repatriation of approved foreign investments, inclusive of capital appreciation, and placement abroad or in offshore banks of working balances of companies operating in Mauritius), and a duty of 5 percent applies, under certain condi- tions, to purchases of gold coins. Companies operating in the export processing zone (EPZ) and other Mauritian exporters and trad- ers dealing in priority imports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies operating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are autho- rized to maintain, with local commercial banks, accounts denominated in foreign currencies. For- eign currency proceeds from exports may be main- tained in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Mauritius formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 29,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated by the Financial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for issuing import permits where necessary. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mau- ritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Madagascar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mau- ritius, (2) transfers from other external accounts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers of any convertible foreign currency by nonresi- dents. These accounts may be debited for (1) pay- ments to residents of Mauritius, (2) transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The Nonresident (External Account) Scheme reintro- duced on September 25,1985 is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incentives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to open savings or fixed deposit accounts with commercial banks in Mauri- 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 327 tius in rupees and term deposit accounts (for a min- imum of one year) in foreign currencies. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free at any time to transfer the balances of their accounts, together with interest. As of August 16, 1993, the Bank of Mauritius no longer provides exchange rate guarantees for balances in nonresi- dent accounts with respect to new deposits. Blocked accounts are used to credit funds owned by persons and firms residing outside Mauritius and realized from investments not made with funds transferred from abroad, as well as funds represent- ing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 500,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments made by residents of Mauritius and specifically authorized for credit to a blocked account; these accounts may also be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from blocked accounts may be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, however, the proceeds are once more directed to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supply (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1991, controlled goods, as specified in the first schedule, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and a duty of 17 percent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Commercial banks are authorized to approve and transfer funds for import payments without limit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports and purchases of foreign exchange for travel are permit- ted without restriction. Residents may hold interna- tional credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. Exporters are allowed to operate for- eign exchange accounts at the commercial banks. Exports of certain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on the first 3,000 tons of sugar exports, but a uniform tax of 18.75 percent is levied on exports above that amount. All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized dealer or credited to a foreign cur- rency account. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but travelers may not import more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic cur- rency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Foreign investors are allowed to repa- triate their capital, without paying a tax and with- out prior approval from the Bank of Mauritius, if the investments are made with funds transferred from abroad, including capital gains. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not made by transfer of funds from abroad must be credited to blocked accounts. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against pay- ment of the 5 percent duty or for investment in Mauritius without payment of the duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of off- shore banking facilities came into force on January 1,1989. Emigrants to any country may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of duty, the equiv- alent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauri- tian assets upon redesignation as nonresidents, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a blocked account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to a 5 percent duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 Gold MAURITIUS Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commemorative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as per- sonal jewelry and ornaments. The importation and exportation of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments for private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to a 5 percent duty. Imports of certain items of jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 16. The Bank of Mauritius abolished the forward foreign exchange cover facility. September 29. Mauritius accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts August 16. The Bank of Mauritius ceased provid- ing exchange rate guarantees for balances in non- resident accounts with respect to new deposits. Payments for Invisibles September 29. The limit on remittances by resi- dents for support of dependent relatives abroad was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the New Mexican Peso.1 The Mexican authorities follow a policy of adjusting the external value of the peso in small amounts on a daily basis. Since October 21, 1992, the daily depreciation of the maximum selling rate has been set at Mex$0.0004 per U.S. dollar, while the minimum buying rate has been held constant. Under this policy, the differential between the maximum selling and the minimum buying rates has been widened. But in practice, the Bank of Mexico sets a narrower daily intervention band between the maximum selling and minimum buy- ing rates. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Mex$3.0512 and Mex$3.3296, respectively, per US$1. No limita- tions apply on access to ownership or transfer of foreign exchange. Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except (1) when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to the Mexican bank where the account is held; (2) when the funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to other Mexican banks; (3) when the funds repre- sent the redemption, sale, or interest payments of securities held in custody in the Mexican bank where the account is held, only if the securities were bought with the proceeds from any of the transactions defined in (1) or (2); and (4) when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Manager of Authorizations and International Legal Affairs in the Bank of Mexico. Commercial banks are permit- ted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars in Mexico only for (1) residents in the north- ern border area of Mexico, (2) firms operating in Mexico in any part of the country, and (3) official representatives of foreign governments and inter- national organizations and foreigners working in these institutions. Commercial banks are permitted to open, in any part of the country, time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars and payable only abroad for firms operating in Mexico. !On January 1, 1993, a new currency, the new Mexican peso, equivalent to 1,000 (old) Mexican pesos, was introduced. On November 12,1946, Mexico formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Effective November 11, 1991, all controls on exchange transactions were abolished. The licens- ing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFl). Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. Prescription of Currency In accordance with payments agreements with the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country con- cerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar payments arrange- ments exist with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Malaysia, and Nicaragua. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from SECOFl are required for only 192 of the 11,816 items in Mexico's general import tariff, except for temporary imports of raw materi- als and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for nine months and may be extended for three months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effec- tively used. For some commodities, "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. Since July 1, 1988, the import tariff structure has been based on the harmonized product description and coding 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 MEXICO system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are sub- ject to preferential tariffs. A free trade zone regime is granted until August 31,1995, for certain regions2 in the country, including the newly established bor- der zone with Guatemala. This regime allows imports into these regions without customs tariffs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The contracting of personal insurance policies abroad is not restricted. Casualty insurance policies intended to cover events that may take place in Mexico may be contracted only with Mexican companies, including subsidiaries of foreign insurance compa- nies established in Mexico. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items are prohibited. Mexican banks are authorized to grant loans in foreign currency for export activities. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Exports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States, Mexico was granted the ben- efit of the injury test in countervailing duty investi- gations until April 23, 1994, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the use of proceeds from invisibles. Capital Foreign direct investments are normally allowed up to 100 percent of equity without prior authoriza- tion, with the following exceptions. (1) Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; generation of nuclear energy; radioac- tive minerals; communication via satellite; tele- These regions are the free trade zones of Baja California Norte, Baja California Sur, Quintana Roo, and the partial Baja California free trade zone of Sonora. graphs; radiotelegraphy; postal service; railroads; issuance of paper money; minting of coins; control and supervision of ports; and airports and heli- ports. (2) Investments in the following sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican nationals or Mexi- can corporations: retail trade of gasoline and distri- bution of liquified petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting with the exception of cable television; road transport (excluding courier and package goods transport services); credit unions and development banks; and certain professional and technical services. However, foreign investors wishing to invest in these activities may acquire shares in companies engaged in these activities through the Neutral Trust Mechanism. (3) Invest- ments in the following sectors require prior authori- zation: acquisition of more than 49 percent of the equity in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets exceeds US$25 million; maritime transport and certain port services; administration of air ter- minals; cellular telephones; construction activities, including the construction of pipelines for oil and its derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; credit information; security rat- ing institutions; and insurance agents. In order to obtain prior authorization, investors must submit their proposals to the National Commission of For- eign Investment. Approval is automatic if a formal response is not made within 45 working days of the date of application. In reaching its decision, the Commission takes into account the impact of investments on employment and training of work- ers, the technological contribution, compliance with environmental provisions in relevant laws, and the contribution to the economy. (4) Ceilings on foreign ownership are applied to the following sectors: financial institutions; auto parts; manufacturing of explosives and firearms; printing and publication of domestic newspaper; agricultural land; cable televi- sion and basic telephone services; video text and packaged switching services; and air, land, and cer- tain activities related to maritime transport. Upon registration with the Ministry of Foreign Relations, Mexican companies with foreign partici- pation may be allowed to own land for nonresiden- tial purposes in restricted border (within 100 kilometers) and seacoast (within 50 kilometers) areas. The acquisition of land rights by foreigners for residential purposes in restricted areas must be effected through a renewable 50-year trust held by a Mexican bank and requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Relations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 331 Gold Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the prevailing exchange rate. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control March 10. SECOFI established a Consultation Body for International Trade Practices, to provide techni- cal assistance in matters related to dumping and countervailing duties. January 1 (1994). The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), signed by the Governments of Canada, the United States, and Mexico on December 17, 1992, became effective following its ratification by the three legislatures of the three countries. The agreement provides for the elimina- tion of most tariff and nontariff barriers between the three countries within 5-10 years (15 years in the case of some especially sensitive goods). In the area of financial services, member countries, except in cases where expressly reserved by any one of them, agreed to provide national treatment and most-favored-nation status (1) to the financial ser- vice providers in the other partner countries, (2) to investors of partner countries and their investments in financial institutions in the country's territory, and (3) to cross border trade in financial services in the NAFTA region. Rules of origin would allow the application of NAFTA duties only to the goods that have undergone significant transformation within the NAFTA area. Imports and Import Payments April 12. In the context of LAI A agreements, a 100 percent preferential customs duties treatment was granted to three categories of goods imported from Uruguay. April 15. Antidumping penalties were imposed on goods imported from China at the following rates: shoes (1,105 percent); tools (312 percent); toys (351 percent); machinery and electrical equipment (129 percent); chemical products (673 percent); clothes (533 percent on 34 import categories, 379 percent on 10 categories); and textiles (331 percent on 23 catego- ries, 501 percent on 24 categories, and 54 percent on 3 categories). May 4, 6, and 18. SECOFI reformed the customs duties applicable to some fishing equipment and animal skins, levied a duty of 18 cents to 24 cents per kilogram on sugar imports, and eliminated duties on six categories of gold imports. August 19. SECOFI established countervailing duties on goods imported from the Republic of Kor£a at the following rates: short fibers imports (from 3.7 percent to 32 percent); and candles (103 percent). Locks from China, the United States, Hong Kong, and Taiwan Province of China were subject to a countervailing duty of 484 percent. August 24. Import duties were abolished on 58 groups of agricultural inputs. August 25. Import licenses were abolished on seven categories of machinery and equipment used in the agricultural sector. Exports and Export Proceeds July 27. SECOFI published the new International Trade Law. The Law allocated between several gov- ernment institutions the responsibility for promot- ing exports and provided norms on the origin of goods, customs duties, unfair trade practices, and export protection and promotion policies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. Dollar.2 There is no central monetary insti- tution. A statutory banking board, established in 1980, regulates the financial system. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commer- cial banks, which buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be settled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to any import-licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or spe- cific basis, as follows: cigarettes, carbonated nonal- coholic beverages, drink mixes, drink preparations, coffee, tea, beer and malt beverages, and wines, 25 percent; spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $10 per U.S. gallon; and gasoline and diesel fuel, 5 cents per U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties are 3 percent on foodstuffs, 100 percent on laundry bar soap, and 4 percent on all other products. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, but exporters must obtain an export lrThe Federated States of Micronesia became a member of the IMF on June 24,1993. 2 The Federated States of Micronesia must consult with the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. 3 The Compact Agreement with the United States exempts the importation, use, possession, and exportation of the U.S. cur- rency by U.S. armed forces and U.S. contractors or personnel from any form of regulation, restriction, or control by the Feder- ated States of Micronesia. business license. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing and expor- tation of copra are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Commercial export docu- ments are verified by the customs authorities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are regulated by federal and state authorities. They must obtain an application from the federal Government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located. They must obtain a license from the federal Gov- ernment to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal Gov- ernment and submitted to the Federal Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located and operated. Priorities for foreign invest- ment are reviewed by the federal and state authori- ties from time to time. Although no special financial incentives are offered to foreign investors, a num- ber of incentives are available under certain U.S. laws (e.g., duty-free access to the U.S. market for some products). Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with laws prohibiting land ownership by foreigners.4 Foreign investors normally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land acquired for their business.5 There are no restric- tions on the repatriation of profit or capital. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 4 Article XII, Section 4 of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia prohibits a noncitizen or a corporation not wholly owned by citizens from acquiring title to land or waters in the country. 5 Article XII, Section 5 of the Constitution prohibits "agree- ments for the use of land for an indefinite period." 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Republic of Moldova is the Moldovan Leu.1 The exchange rate system consists of the official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar for noncash transactions, which is established in the fixing sessions at the Chisinau Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (CIFCE), and the exchange rate for cash transactions, which is freely determined in the exchange market operated by exchange bureaus and other authorized dealers. The official exchange rate applies to foreign exchange transactions car- ried out by the National Bank of Moldova (NBM), including official external debt-service payments, and is used for accounting and tax valuation pur- poses. Fixing sessions are conducted three times a week by the NBM in the CIFCE. Enterprises engag- ing in importing activities may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks. On December 31, 1993, the average official exchange rate was MDL 3.64 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are governed by the Regulations on Currency Control in the Repub- lic of Moldova, which came into effect on January 17,1994. The NBM has the ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is responsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign bank notes and traveler's checks in any currency that is recognized by the NBM. Authorized banks and for- eign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates for the foreign exchange transac- tions of natural persons. l rrhe national currency, the Moldovan leu, was introduced on November 29, 1993 at the conversion rate of 1,000 Moldovan rubles to 1 leu. Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts, and settlements with countries with which Moldova maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of these agreements.2 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open currency accounts, which they may use at their own discretion, at authorized banks. The source of for- eign exchange is not subject to investigation. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks. The opening of current and other accounts by Moldovan residents in foreign banks abroad requires approval from the NBM. Account holders may not use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle domestic transactions. Nonresident entities with foreign currency deposits at authorized banks may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks at a rate determined by the NBM. Imports and Exports A few products (medicine, medical equipment, chemicals, and industrial waste) are subject to licenses for the purpose of protecting the consumer and insuring compliance with domestic standards. Imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are not subject to any taxes, except for a license fee of 0.1 per- cent of the value of the goods, which is converted into the national currency on the date of payment at the rate established by the National Bank, and a cus- toms fee of 0.25 percent of the value of the goods. Imports from other countries are subject to import tariffs, customs fees, and license fees. In September 1993, Moldova introduced a new tariff regime (amended in March 1994), under which tariff rates range up to 70 percent. Energy, medicine, medi- At the end of 1993, Moldova maintained bilateral trade agree- ments with China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Roma- nia, and the Slovak Republic. These agreements contain the most-favored-nation clause and, with the exception of the agree- ment with Romania, specify that settlements are to be made in convertible currencies at world market prices. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 MOLDOVA cal equipment, raw materials, cereals, and children's food are exempt from tariffs. The tariff rate for chem- ical products, cotton, and minerals is 3 percent; rates exceeding 30 percent are levied on alcoholic bever- ages (100 percent), cigarettes (100 percent), vehicles (35 percent), and TV receivers (30 percent). Exports of a number of goods (e.g., those subject to adminis- trative prices, goods considered to be important for national security, medicines, and goods of cultural value) are subject to licenses. Exports of unprocessed leather, cereals, cereal products, and energy products are subject to a quota. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of customs declaration. All enterprises other than joint ventures in which the foreign capital participation is greater than $250,000, or exceeds 30 percent of the total capital equity of the enterprise, are required to sell 35 per- cent of their net foreign exchange earnings on the exchange market. Net proceeds are defined as export proceeds exclusive of freight and insurance abroad. Proceeds from exports under barter arrangements are not subject to the surrender requirement. There are no taxes on exports except for a customs fee of 0.25 percent of the value of the shipment. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange in the "cash" market. For travel abroad, residents may take out up to $1,000 for each trip without additional authorization. All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated, but they are not subject to surrender requirements. Capital vices were required to be sold to the NBM (previ- ously, the rates of surrender requirements were 50 percent for commercial enterprises and 35 per- cent for producing enterprises). August 9. A decision of the Administrative Coun- cil of the NBM distinguishing between Moldovan rubles and the rubles of the states of the former U.S.S.R. became effective. The NBM began to quote the exchange rate of 1.3 Moldovan rubles against 1 Russian ruble. The exchange rate of the Moldovan ruble against rubles from the other states of the former U.S.S.R. was set at parity. September 14. A decision of the Administrative Council of the NBM permitted banks to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to an over- all limit on the aggregate open position equal to 30 percent of their capital (with a sublimit of 10 per- cent of capital on their position in individual for- eign currency). November 16. By a decision of the Administrative Council of the NBM, the official exchange rate for the Moldovan ruble against the U.S. dollar was determined to be the rate established in the CIFCE. The official exchange rate for other convertible cur- rencies would be determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies quoted in international markets. In the transactions outside the trading sessions of the CIFCE, banks were required to trade within margins of 1 percent of the official rates for the U.S. dollar and 2 percent for other freely convertible currencies and the Rus- sian ruble. November 29. The national currency, the leu, was introduced at the conversion rate of 1,000 Moldo- van rubles to 1 leu. All capital transactions require specific approval from the NBM. Imports and Exports Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. Regulations governing domestic trade in gold are established by the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Thirty-five percent of all foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and ser- April 5. A generalized export licensing require- ment for 155 categories of goods was replaced by a system of limited licensing. August 9. The list of goods subject to licensing was reduced to 74 categories from 155. Goods in the 74 categories could be exported to the convertible currency area or in exchange for energy products without restriction. September 1. Imports from countries other than from the states of the former U.S.S.R. were sub- jected to a new tariff regime, under which the rates would range up to 70 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mongolia is the Tugrik (100 Mongo per 1 Tugrik). The exchange rate is determined by demand and supply conditions in the interbank exchange market. The central bank rate is set by the Bank of Mongolia as the midpoint of the previous day's average buying and selling rates established by transactions among commer- cial banks. The central bank rate is applied to the public sector's transactions in imports and services, including debt-service payments, and to trade and service transactions conducted under bilateral pay- ments arrangements. All other transactions, includ- ing sales of retained foreign exchange by public sector enterprises, take place at the free market rate. On December 31,1993, the average (middle) rate in the interbank exchange market was Tug 395 per US$1. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in international markets. Administration of Control Authority for control over foreign exchange rests with the People's Great Khural (Upper House of Parliament), which approves the foreign exchange budget as part of the overall annual economic plan. On the basis of this budget and projected foreign exchange earnings, the Ministry of Finance pre- pares detailed sectoral foreign exchange allocations, and the Bank of Mongolia ensures that the alloca- tions are implemented. During 1992, exchange allo- cations for most sectoral ministries were exhausted, and additional, ad hoc allocations were made on the basis of available foreign exchange resources. Private sector entities are allowed to engage in for- eign trade activities, although international trade is still conducted mainly by state enterprises, which dominate productive activities, and through state foreign trading organizations (FTOs). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All trade with the former CMEA members is con- ducted at world prices on the basis of convertible currencies. The procedures for settling outstanding balances under the clearing arrangements of the former International Bank for Economic Coopera- tion, including the appropriate exchange rate for the transferable ruble, are currently under negotia- tion. Trade with the former CMEA members, other than the former U.S.S.R., is being conducted on an ad hoc basis under bilateral arrangements that were concluded before 1991. In January 1993, Mongolia concluded a bilateral trade agreement with the former U.S.S.R., with an indicative value of trade in each direction. Mongolia maintains bilateral clear- ing agreements with the People's Republic of China and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Inoperative bilateral payments arrangements are also maintained with Afghanistan. Resident Accounts Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts. Resident per- sons and enterprises may maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. They may credit these accounts with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may use the balances on the accounts for any pur- pose without restriction. Imports and Exports Import and export trade is handled by state enterprises and the private sector. Most restrictions on exports have been eliminated, except for those on live animals, meat, and wheat and those main- tained on some products for environmental rea- sons. A license is required to export and is issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry when a pro- posed export contract is submitted. All goods may be imported and exported except for those that are banned for cross-border trade. The importation and exportation of certain goods require special permis- sion from the relevant ministries. Drugs, materials that encourage or depict violence and pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. Among the items requiring a special permit for border trade are historical artifacts, pre- cious metals, arms, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. State enterprises are required to surrender 55 percent of proceeds from exports to the Bank of 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 MONGOLIA Mongolia. Private sector exporters are allowed to retain all of their earnings and may deposit them in foreign exchange accounts and use them for any purpose without restriction, subject to compliance with appropriate regulations. They may also sell them in the free market. Imports are subject to a uniform 15 percent cus- toms duty. Flour, tea, rice, machinery and equip- ment imported by joint ventures, and equipment used by disabled people are exempt from the cus- toms duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles is not provided at the official exchange rate but may be purchased without restriction on the interbank exchange market. Remittances of dividends and profits from investments in convertible currencies are permitted under the Law on Foreign Investment of May 1990 (see below). Proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the interbank exchange market with- out restriction. The importation and exportation of domestic bank notes are prohibited. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes resi- dents or nonresidents may import or export. Capital Foreign direct investment has been liberalized, and foreign investment by private corporations is now being encouraged. The new Law on Foreign Investment (July 1993) has codified the procedures for establishing foreign firms in Mongolia and pro- vides certain guarantees and privileges to foreign investors. Among its provisions are that these firms will not be nationalized and that foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. Trans- fers of profits abroad are not restricted. The maxi- mum rate of profit tax is 40 percent, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for various periods (from three to ten years) depending on sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with the foreign trade enterprises. The law particularly encourages investment in export promotion, projects using advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 27. A unified floating exchange rate system was adopted. Under the new system, the Bank of Mongolia would set the daily exchange rate of the tugrik against the U.S. dollar as the midpoint of the previous day's average buying and selling rates established by transactions among commercial banks in the foreign exchange market. Imports and Exports January 1. The 10 percent import surcharge was abolished. May 15. A list of goods banned for cross-border trade and a list of goods requiring special permis- sion by the relevant ministries were published. All other products were allowed to be imported or exported. Some of the items requiring special per- mit for border trade crossing are historical artifacts, precious metals, arms, radioactive materials, fer- rous and nonferrous metals, and goods and ser- vices requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of March 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes a daily rate for the French franc on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geo- graphic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are estab- lished on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in rela- tion to the French franc in the Paris exchange mar- ket. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.637 per F 1, and the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 9.651 per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each separate cur- rency. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transac- tions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Clearing operations between banks are not permit- ted; thus, no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions by travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit denominated in convertible currencies (those listed in footnote 1 and French francs, but excluding Alge- rian dinars, Libyan dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, and Tunisian dinars) and specified other curren- cies2; the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at Bank Al-Maghrib when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. For- ward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded between banks and their customers result in reverse contracts Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2 Gibraltar pounds. between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corresponds to the spot exchange rate, against the payment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by authorized banks; provisions are made for extending contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Arbitrage operations may be executed freely in favor of nonresident customers. Morocco formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export certificates, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Imports not involving payment do not require authorization. Part of the Port of Tangier is designated a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency Payments between Morocco and the rest of the world may be made in any currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib (see footnote 1) or through for- eign accounts in convertible dirhams or foreign cur- rency accounts opened in Moroccan banks in the name of foreign correspondents. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The following accounts may be opened and oper- ated by nonresidents. Foreign currency accounts in the name of foreign nationals may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, either residents or nonresidents, as well as by Moroccan nationals residing abroad. These accounts may be freely cred- ited with transfers from abroad; with foreign bank 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 MOROCCO notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and with foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special authoriza- tion from the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder or to a third-party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib and for the payment of checks denominated in for- eign currency. Foreign currency accounts in the name of Moroccan residents living abroad may be opened by individuals of Moroccan nationality residing abroad on condi- tion that the initial deposit equals or exceeds the foreign currency equivalent of DH 100,000. These accounts may be credited freely with transfers from abroad, checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following gen- eral or special authorization from the Exchange Office, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or from an account in con- vertible dirhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams, foreign currency subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib. Foreign currency accounts of exporters may be opened freely by Moroccan exporters of goods and services who are already holders of convertible accounts for export promotion. Those who do not hold such an account must have the prior consent of the Exchange Office. These accounts may be freely credited with 10 percent of foreign exchange receipts in the case of exporters of goods and 5 percent in the case of exporters of services. The recording of foreign currency amounts corresponding to these rates must be effected simultaneously with the surrender to Bank Al-Maghrib of the remaining 90 percent or 95 percent as appropriate. These accounts may also be credited freely with the return on invested funds lodged therein and with transfers from another for- eign currency account of the same holder. They may be debited for professional expenses covered by exchange regulations, investment with authorized intermediary banks, subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, for credit of another for- eign currency account or a convertible dirham account for exporters (CCPEX) opened in the name of the same holder, and for surrender of foreign cur- rency to Bank Al-Maghrib. Foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be opened by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with gener- ally or specifically authorized transfers in favor of the account holder and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of foreign exchange, including bank notes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases of for- eign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib. Transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonresident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restric- tions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in con- vertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dir- hams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency- denominated means of payment. Convertible dirham accounts for exporters (CCPEX) may be opened by exporters of goods or services with Moroccan banks. These accounts may be cred- ited with the equivalent of 20 percent of the foreign currency repatriated and surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib in the case of exporters of goods or 10 percent in the case of exporters of services. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used to finance expenditures contracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100 percent of the foreign currency repatriated. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not enti- tled to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred henceforth within a maximum period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, to fund investments in Morocco, buy treasury bonds, purchase Moroccan marketable securities, settle expenses incurred in Morocco, and, in the case of foreign corporations, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 339 provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The beneficia- ries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50 percent of an investor's participation in investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with the General Import Program, which includes a negative list of goods requiring prior authorization. After the elimination of 460 product items in March 1992, only pharmaceuticals, energy, and textile goods remain on the negative list. All goods not appearing on this list may be freely imported. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance compa- nies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad; this group includes externally funded imports, if the financing terms include foreign insurance, capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts, or duly authorized investment programs, crude and diesel oil, gas, cattle, and wood. For all imports, the importer must subscribe to a security—a certificate or import commitment—that must be lodged with an authorized bank, which may make payments related to goods and inciden- tal costs upon submission of the required docu- ments. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed with foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to con- tract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for imports of capital goods up to 25 percent of the f .o.b. value of the goods. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, with a maximum tariff rate of 35 percent, except for a limited number of agricultural goods, for which the maximum rate is 45 percent. In addition to regular customs tariffs, fiscal levies of 10 percent, 12.5 per- cent, or 15 percent ad valorem are levied, according to the goods categories. Imports used to manufac- ture goods for export production activities are exempt from customs duties and other import restrictions under the temporary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted for imports of capital goods to enterprises in the tourist and shipping sectors and other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Morocco's Industrial Investment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items representing about 8 percent of industrial production are subject to min- imum import prices (reference prices) for antidump- ing or safeguard purposes. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents without authorization from the Exchange Office. Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners working for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector or engaged in professions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer up to 50 percent of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans have the same entitlement; they may also freely contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Commercial banks are authorized to provide Moroccan residents with a travel allowance in for- eign exchange equivalent to a maximum of DH 5,000 a person a year for travel purposes without Exchange Office approval. This allowance may be increased by DH 1,500 for a minor child on the pass- port of the beneficiary parent and accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents living abroad upon their return to their country of residence at the end of their stay in Morocco, pro- vided they have not benefited from the 15 percent allocation on remittances effected 12 months previ- ously up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. A foreign exchange allocation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 MOROCCO equivalent to a maximum of DH 2,000 a month may be granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restric- tion by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. These banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by individuals not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel allowances may be added to allowances for tourist travel. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to persons travel- ing abroad for medical treatment up to the equiva- lent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on their behalf for treatment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions concerned. They are also autho- rized to transfer retirement pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of persons resid- ing abroad permanently. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain con- vertible dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the full dirham equivalent of for- eign exchange earnings, and foreign currency accounts may be credited with 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. Foreign air- lines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers with respect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. Moroccan film distribution companies may trans- fer to foreign film producers or distributors user fees and other additional expenses related to the showing of these films in Morocco. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to individuals studying abroad without prior Exchange Office authorization, as follows: (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000, and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, upon submission of documentary evi- dence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allow- ance for living expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. In addition to these facilities, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corresponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his legal guardian has submitted a prop- erly drawn-up lease and a certificate of residence or any other document taking its place. Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Workers leaving Morocco for employment abroad for the first time may be granted an allocation of for- eign currency equivalent to DH 5,000 upon presenta- tion of employment contracts. Transfers relating to remittances for family maintenance are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase for- eign exchange against presentation of exchange certif- icate(s) up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. The exportation of domestic bank notes is prohib- ited. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods may be exported freely Only subsidized food products, live animals, and archae- ological items are subject to authorization. How- ever, for phosphates, the Cherifien Phosphate Office (OCP) has the export monopoly. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax of 0.5 percent, except for hydrocarbons, for which the tax is 5 percent, and phosphates, for which a tax on phosphate exploration equivalent to DH 34 per ton of gross phosphates has been levied since 1992. A 1 percent quality-control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The for- eign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business condi- tions and approved by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance imports of goods and raw materi- als of goods for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 341 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality, including individuals and corporations, must repatriate for- eign exchange receipts accruing from all their non- commercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans work- ing abroad must surrender within one month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on depar- ture from Morocco, they may freely export foreign bank notes obtained by debiting their_accounts in convertible dirhams without restriction. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15 percent of foreign exchange repatriated and sur- rendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a limit of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan residents living abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist alloca- tion that applies to residents. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign bank notes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. The importation of domestic bank notes is prohibited. Capital The industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and eases the repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors and provides for full repatriation of tourist-related after-tax profits, without any time restriction. All types of investment are permitted without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, including (1) participation in the equity capital of a company being established; (2) subscription to the capital increase of an existing company; (3) purchases of Moroccan securities; (4) contributions to partnerships; (5) purchases of real property; (6) self- financing con- struction projects; (7) establishment or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase cap- ital through the capitalization of reserves, carryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available or through the consolidation of partnership current accounts. Operations involving transfers of invest- ment ownership between foreigners do not require the authorization of the Exchange Office. As of September 1992, a convertibility regime was introduced in favor of foreign investment, which includes investment by foreign corporations, resident or nonresident foreign individuals, and Moroccans residing abroad. Such investment must be financed in foreign exchange or by a similar method: capitalization of reserves and profits, con- tributions in kind, consolidation of trade claims, or use of assets in convertible term accounts. Under this convertibility regime, exchange regulations permit the investors in question to invest freely in Morocco, remit the income thus generated directly to the banking system with no restriction on amounts or time, and repatriate the proceeds of the liquidation or sale of such investment, including any profits, also without prior authorization. The holders of convertible term accounts may freely use funds on these accounts for the following purposes: for financing investment operations in Morocco in all sectors of economic activity, regard- less of the kind of investment; for purchasing trea- sury bonds under the existing laws; for current account advances from foreign corporations to their subsidiaries in Morocco and any other placements the account holder may make; for acquiring transfer- able securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; for settling living expenses and any other expenses in dirhams in Morocco incurred by account holders or their spouses, direct ancestors, and direct descendants (in the case of individuals) or by duly designated agents (in the case of corporations) with no limits on the amount; and for paying duties and taxes due in Morocco by account holders. Further- more, the original holders of convertible term accounts may freely transfer funds from their accounts to resident or nonresident foreigners or to nonresident Moroccan nationals. The above-men- tioned purchasers may use the funds (1) to cover all dirham expenses incurred in Morocco by foreign film production companies for shooting films in Morocco; (2) to purchase secondary residences (pro- vided they are located in a tourist development area for the buyers' personal use); (3) to finance up to 50 percent of capital increases of subsidiaries of for- eign corporations established in Morocco, provided that the rest is financed with foreign exchange trans- ferred from abroad; and (4) to partially finance investment operations in Morocco in all sectors, regardless of the form of investment (in this case, financing of investment with debiting of convertible term account is allowed to cover only up to 50 per- cent of the investment, provided that the remaining ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 MOROCCO 50 percent is financed with foreign exchange trans- ferred from abroad). External financing operations by Moroccan enter- prises in respect of external credit facilities, pur- chaser or supplier credits, export financing credits, advances on partnership current accounts, and refi- nancing operations have been liberalized. Author- ity has been delegated to the banks to remit maturities due under these financing operations in principal, interest, and any applicable charges. Transfers of capital by foreigners leaving the country permanently are limited to DH 25,000 for each year spent in Morocco. Moroccan nationals residing in the country and cor- porations established in Morocco may invest abroad with the authorization of the Exchange Office. How- ever, they are required to remit the income generated by their investments and, as appropriate, the proceeds from liquidation of their investments. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes Administration. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allo- cated among jewelers and industrial users of pre- cious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 21. Morocco formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts November 2. Moroccan exporters and residents were allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments June 10. The maximum customs duty was reduced to 35 percent from 40 percent, except with respect to a number of agricultural products for which the rate was maintained at 40 percent or 45 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 13. Authorized banks were empowered to grant professional travel allowances equivalent to up to DH 20,000 to individuals or corporations in private practice who are not entitled to an annual allowance. September 21. An additional exchange allocation of DH 1,500 was granted to each minor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent and accompany- ing the parent at the time of travel abroad. Capital December 14. Operations involving Moroccan marketable securities were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), the external valve of which is deter- mined by supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. On December 31,1993, the aver- age exchange rate of the metical in the secondary market in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 5,343.16 per US$1, and the average exchange rate of the met- ical of the central bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was Mt 5,238.39 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares annually, in consultation with the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, and Cooperation, as well as with the Bank of Mozambique (BM), a global for- eign exchange budget for the following year, as part of the Government's Economic and Social Program. Imports and exports are authorized through licenses, issued by the Ministry of Commerce for statistical purposes. Invisible transactions are con- trolled by the Ministry of Finance. All five commer- cial banks—the Banco Commercial de Mozambique (BCM), Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique (BSTM), Banco de Fomonto e Exterior (BFE), and Banco Por- tugues do Atlantico (BPA)—are licensed to operate in the foreign exchange market. Thirteen financial institutions—SOCIEF, SAFRIQUE, LUSOGLOBO, PROIN- VEST, AFZAL, CAMBIOS, ALKIS, MACROLPULOS, EXCHANGE HOUSE, LUNAT, MIAMI TkAVEL AND TOURS, MOCAMBIOS, and NATAIR—are licensed to operate in the secondary exchange market. Prescription of Currency Mozambique maintains a bilateral clearing agree- ment with Tanzania, but transactions under it have been suspended. It also maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe, but these relate to the use of national currencies for border trade. Foreigners residing in Mozambique may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange at the BCM, the BPD, the BSTM, the BFE, and the BPA. They may also open domestic currency accounts in the same banks, but transfers of such funds abroad require proof that the amounts originated in foreign currency. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific purposes based on their legitimate interests in Mozambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the competent authorities. Former residents (national and foreign residents who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank accounts in Mozambique, but their use is subject to prior autho- rization from the Ministry of Finance. Withdrawals may be made for payments of taxes, certain types of debt (fees and obligations to the Government, gov- ernment agencies, credit institutions, and insurance companies, provided that such debts are properly verified), family maintenance and expenses incurred by the account holders while visiting the country, and other payments for which authoriza- tion is obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports exceeding the equivalent of $500 are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are provided routinely. The license speci- fies, among other things, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the goods and the amount and currency of payment and the source of financ- ing. A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, import requests are reviewed by the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs. Tied import support funds are allocated by the BM to the commercial banks. Indi- viduals may import goods up to the equivalent of $500 without an import license if the goods are financed with their own foreign exchange resources and tied aid funds are not involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the five commercial banks upon presentation of authoriza- tion granted by the Ministry of Finance. Payments 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 MOZAMBIQUE for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Allowances for travel are made available only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment, and applications are approved on a case-by-case basis. Individuals are permitted to buy foreign exchange up to certain limits to pay expenses asso- ciated with travel for education, scientific and cul- tural visits, and medical treatment. An annual ceiling equivalent to $4,000 is applied to other trav- elers. Remittances for education abroad are subject to a monthly ceiling equivalent to $300. Each minis- try is subject to a ceiling on foreign exchange for official business and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount they declared on entry. Exports and re-imports of domestic currency are prohibited. An airport fee equivalent to $10-$20 in foreign currency is levied by the airport authorities on international depar- tures, depending on the destination. Remittances of profit and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a license. All export pro- ceeds must be collected through the five commer- cial banks and may be sold in the secondary exchange market. Export licenses are granted liber- ally, except for shrimp and raw cashew nuts, which may be exported only by producers and approved intermediaries. An export duty of 0.5 percent is lev- ied on a number of raw materials and foodstuffs (cotton fiber, corn, live animals, raw materials, edi- ble oils, textiles, fish, crustaceans, shellfish, sugar, copra seeds, cashew nuts, and peanuts). Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other financial institu- tions may hold a limited amount of foreign exchange. Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifi- cally, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the BM and convert them into meticais. Capital The Government and the BM are authorized to borrow abroad. Public and private enterprises are also allowed to borrow abroad, provided that loans are guaranteed by the BM. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. The Foreign Direct Investment Law, published in June and July 1993, aims to encourage foreign investments owned fully by foreign interests or jointly with Mozambican enterprises. The law guarantees investors the right to repatriate capital and transfer abroad a portion of profits. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree No. 11/81 of July 25,1981. The BM is responsible for enforcing this decree. The impor- tation of gold or other precious metals is governed by special regulations. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The central bank exchange rate and the secondary market exchange rate were unified. Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Export procedures, including export authorization (registo de vende), were simplified, and a uniform export duty rate of 0.5 percent was intro- duced. Capital June 24. A new investment law was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are deter- mined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Iranian rial, the Nepalese rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee). On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the US. dollar were K 6.1837 and K 6.3074, respec- tively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, the Netherlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. Since February 1993, foreign exchange certificates (FECs) have been issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar through authorized dealers and FEC Changers License holders. Tourists arriving in Myan- mar are required to purchase a minimum of $200. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank in accordance with instructions from the Min- istry of Finance and Revenue. A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minis- ter allocates foreign exchange for the public sector. Prescription of Currency Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in the currency of the member country through the ACU mechanisms. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an external account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an external account in Myanmar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Accounts in kyats held by nonresidents are desig- nated as nonresident accounts; all debits and credits jrequire prior authorization. Foreign currency accounts of foreign diplomatic missions and inter- national organizations and their home-based per- sonnel may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank or the Myanma Investment and Com- mercial Bank. Other foreign residents may open for- eign currency accounts with any bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Transfers of funds between these accounts are permitted. Both resi- dents and nonresidents are allowed to purchase FECs with foreign exchange earned from legal sources. In addition to the use of FECs, the following reg- ulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts by residents: (a) Foreign currency accounts of national firms. Pri- vate exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade may retain 100 percent of their export pro- ceeds and may open foreign currency accounts with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank or the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank. Account holders are allowed to import under valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of import letters of credit or on a collection basis. As for border trade, exporters are generally allowed to retain 100 percent of their earnings. The retention ratio for earnings from services exports, labor income, and remittances is 75 percent. (b) Foreign currency accounts of national individuals. The following individuals are allowed to open for- eign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar nationals returning from abroad after completing their assign- ments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myanmar seamen working with foreign shipping lines under existing regulations; (4) Myanmar nationals working with the United Nations and its affiliated organiza- tions; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myanmar nationals receiving pensions in foreign currency after serving with for- eign governments or international organizations; 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 MYANMAR (7)Myanmar nationals receiving foreign exchange for services rendered to foreign individuals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) Myanmar nationals receiving their pay in foreign currency abroad for services rendered as agents to foreign firms; (9) Myanmar nationals receiving rent- als in foreign currency for their tangible and intangi- ble assets; (10) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency from an inheritance; (11) Myanmar nation- als receiving foreign currency in compensation from a foreign firm or insurance companyjor the death or disability of a family member while serving with a foreign firm; (12) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign currency in the form of gifts from relatives or friends living abroad; and (13) any Myanmar nation- als holding FECs exceeding the equivalent of $100. A foreign currency account may be opened in U.S. dollars only. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to pur- chase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, examination fees for their children, and medical treatment abroad. Transfers of balances between accounts are permitted. (c) Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30,1988, economic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission and foreigners employed by these economic organiza- tions are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. Under the same law, the following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Commission: (1) foreign currency belonging to the person who brought in foreign capital; (2) foreign currency withdrawn by the person who brought in foreign capital; (3) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who brought in foreign capital; and (4) balances of salary and lawful income earned by the foreign person for ser- vices performed in the state and remaining af ter payment of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him and his family. Imports and Import Payments Import trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. There are currently 22 bands of import tariffs, ranging from zero to 500 percent. Agricultural implements, raw materials, and other essential imports are taxed at very low rates, while the highest rate is applied to luxury items. There exists a long list of exemptions from customs duties, and the Ministry of Finance and Revenue is empowered to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, among other items, may not be imported from any source. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget jointly drawn up by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the Ministry of Finance and Rev- enue. All imports involving use of official foreign exchange are handled by the public sector through the ministries. With a few exceptions, private sector imports require import licenses for each transac- tion. Import licenses may be obtained for priority items (List A), nonpriority items (List B), and "neu- tral" items. An importer wishing to import items on List B or "neutral" items is generally required to import goods on List A in a value equivalent to 50 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of the values of goods on List B and "neutral" items. Private importers must register at the Ministry of Trade as importers and renew their licenses annually. In addition, they are required to obtain foreign exchange clearance from the Central Bank. State economic enterprises may import goods for their own use and for resale without applying for import licenses, whereas government departments may import only for their own use. Imports by govern- ment departments are exempted from prescribed fees but those by the private sector are not. Most imports are effected on an f.o.b. basis, and ship- ments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line whenever possible. Border trade with neighboring countries is regulated and is allowed only with respect to prod- ucts on the positive lists applicable to private or public sector importers. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank and the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Border imports require permits. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds from border exports. Exporters of agricul- tural, forestry, and fisheries products are encour- aged to import up to the amount equivalent to 25 percent of export value selected items that will contribute to the production in these sectors (Minis- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 347 try of Trade Press Communique No. 5/91, dated July 12,1991). Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make unlimited payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under official permits who have not yet opened for- eign currency accounts may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Myanmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classified goods when they enter the country. Payments for Invisibles There are no licensing requirements for payments in connection with foreign trade handled by the pub- lic sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are consid- ered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for member- ship fees and tuition abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals require prior permission from the Foreign Exchange Man- agement Department. Family remittances are per- mitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government; the limit is one-half of the net salary if the wife is living in Myanmar. Out- ward remittances of insurance premium payments other than for the Myanma Insurance are not permit- ted. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees is permitted only if the per- sons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native countries. Personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Residents who have been granted an official per- mit to travel abroad may freely take out $50 and the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of for- eign currency they brought in with them and may reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency, includ- ing FECs. The exportation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. Export taxes are levied on a small number of goods at both ad valorem and spe- cific rates: an ad valorem duty rate of 5 percent is levied on oil cakes, pulses and cereals, raw hides and skins; a specific duty rate of 10 kyats per metric ton is levied on varieties of rice. For exports to neighboring countries, the tax rates range between 10 percent and 20 percent. In practice, state agencies responsible for produc- tion may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. The state eco- nomic enterprises handle the exportation of a few major products, such as rice, teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. The exportation of these products and other controlled items may be permitted by foreign or domestic firms in the private sector. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agricultural Produce Trading in the name of the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export a quantity of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain products, including rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cot- ton, and groundnuts, are not permitted to be exported across the border. Export proceeds must be obtained in accordance with existing foreign exchange management regula- tions. An export-retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign exchange pro- ceeds may be retained by exporters. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports made on a c.i.f. basis must be shipped by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Twenty-five percent of exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered unless the exchange control authorities grant special permission to retain them. Travelers may bring in foreign cur- rency up to $200 or its equivalent without any dec- laration. They need to declare if the foreign currency brought in is more than $200. Foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless they receive special permis- sion to the contrary. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Myanmar seamen serving abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 MYANMAR must repatriate 25 percent of their basic pay; the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad in interna- tional organizations and not subject to income tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of the nationals or their families. Myanmar nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. In addition, if their annual earnings exceed $5,000, they are required to remit home between 2 percent and 10 percent of their earnings, depending on the length of their stay abroad. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30, 1988 by the Union of Myanmar State Law and Order Restora- tion Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from foreigners for (1) full ownership, and (2) a joint venture, with the share of foreign capital representing at least 35 percent of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign invest- ment, the Commission may grant exemption from customs duties and other internal taxes on machin- ery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw materials imported for the first three years of com- mercial production, as well as from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years, including the year when production of goods and services began, or for longer than three years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. Furthermore, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nationalized during the term of the contract, or dur- ing an extended term. Capital and profits may be transferred abroad through foreign currency accounts. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declara- tion at the port of arrival. The exportation of per- sonal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to cus- toms when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 4. FECs were issued. Tourists would be required to purchase a minimum amount of $200 in FECs. April 1. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to purchase FECs with their legitimate foreign exchange holdings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Namibia is the Namibia Dollar. The Namibia dollar is pegged to the South African rand, which is also legal tender, at par. The exchange rates of the Namibia dollar against other currencies are determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate of the Namibia dollar against the U.S. dollar was N$ 1 per US$0.2949. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct spot and forward exchange operations, including for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade trans- actions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transactions involving Namibia dol- lars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the two currencies. Gold mining compa- nies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the financial rand system of the Common Monetary Area (CMA)—a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland—local sales and redemption proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved out- ward capital transfers by residents are not allowed to be transferred in foreign currency but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresi- dents at a freely determined exchange rate, and the exchange rate for the financial rand is usually dis- counted from the commercial rand rate. These bal- ances may be used to purchase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain properties. tions with countries outside the CMA, Namibia applies exchange controls that are almost identical to those applied by the other CMA members. Administration of Control The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Import and export permits, where required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The authorized dealers automatically provide foreign exchange for imports from outside the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)1 upon presenta- tion of necessary documents. Advance payments for imports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of nonresidents2 are divided into non- resident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emi- grant blocked accounts. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. For purposes of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is currently enforced. These permits are valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country outside the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU, and, under certain Exchange Control Territory Namibia is part of the CMA. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. In its rela- l fThe members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 2A nonresident is a person (that is, a natural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the CMA. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 NAMIBIA conditions, from countries within the SACU. A wide range of imports from countries outside the SACU is subject to a general sales tax of 11 percent (as are locally produced goods) and to surcharges ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established lim- its, as follows: (1) annual allowances for tourist travel of N$ 20,000 for an adult and N$ 10,000 for a child under 12 years (basic annual allowances for travel to the neighboring countries—Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—are N$ 6,000 for an adult and N$ 3,000 for a child under 12 years); and (2) busi- ness travel allowances of not more than N$ 1,800 a day, with a maximum of N$ 30,000 in a calendar year (to the neighboring countries mentioned above, allowances may not exceed N$ 900 a day and N$ 12,000 a year). Residents leaving Namibia for destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take the full applicable allowance in any form. The exchange control authorities may grant a larger amount if petitioned. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for education and family mainte- nance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license. All export proceeds are normally required to be remit- ted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of shipment or within seven days of the date of accrual. In order to enforce the repatriation require- ment, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$ 500 in Namibian bank notes or R 500 in South African bank notes. There are no lim- itations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital transfers to and from destinations out- side the CMA in the form of loans are subject to specific approval from the Bank of Namibia. Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries out- side the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expan- sion of existing projects owned or controlled by res- idents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity invest- ments by nonresidents are transferable only through the medium of financial rand. Nonresi- dents are not allowed to purchase farms and resi- dential properties with financial rand. Families emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to N$ 200,000 (N$ 100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account; the bal- ance, including earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. At the time of their arrival, immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities. Any foreign assets they transfer to the CMA may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first five years of their arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for numismatic and investment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement September 15. The Namibia dollar, pegged to the South African rand at par, was introduced as the national currency. The South African rand would continue to be legal tender in Namibia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. The official exchange rate is determined, in practice, by linking it closely to the Indian rupee (NRs 1.60 per Rs 1 at the end of 1993), with cross rates against other currencies determined by commercial banks on the basis of demand and supply. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were NRs 49.58 and NRs 50.08, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quota- tions based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unre- stricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. Purchases of Indian currency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be documented, and the purpose must be specified. Forward exchange cover for trade transactions is available and is pro- vided only by authorized banks. All foreign direct investment in Nepal requires prior approval from the Industrial Promotion Board. Administration of Control Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the procedures pre- scribed by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grindlay's Bank, Nepal Indosuez Bank, Nepal SBI Bank, Himalayan Bank, and the Rastriya Banijya Bank). Nonbank authorized deal- ers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Prescription of Currency All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (i.e., Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in U.S. dollars; other imports and pro- ceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Eligibility for open- ing such accounts is limited, however, to (1) Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months; (2) international organizations and for- eign nationals; (S)Bhutanese and Indian citizens residing in countries other than Bhutan and India; and (4) exporters who are allowed to deposit up to 100 percent of export earnings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum of $500 (or the equivalent in another currency), and time deposits with a minimum of $3,000 (or the equivalent). Non- residents may withdraw their deposits at any time and convert them into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals working in projects financed with foreign-donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agreements with the Gov- ernment, and nonresidents may freely open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible cur- rencies, and balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Nonresidents who receive or bring into Nepal foreign currencies, which they convert into Nepalese rupees and deposit with a Nepalese bank, may reconvert them for transfer out of the country, subject to the prior approval of the NRB. Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. In addi- tion, buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Saudi Ara- bian riyals, and Swedish kronor. Imports and Import Payments Most private sector imports are allowed under open general licenses (OGL). However, imports of certain items, such as arms, ammunition, wireless 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 NEPAL transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rules) require special permission from the Government. Silver is imported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handicraft-exporting industries through the commercial banks. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. Those who have offi- cial sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed additional imports with proper documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, pro- vided that applications for foreign exchange are supported by documentary proof of need and the amounts are reasonable. Nepalese and Indian cur- rencies may not be exported to countries other than India, and they may be taken to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they bring in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment and are converted at the market exchange rate. Exports valued at more than $1,000 to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit or advance payments by foreign banks. Exports of items having archaeological and religious importance and certain other exports, including old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials, are prohib- ited. The re-exportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and the re-exportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted to an annual rate of growth of 6 percent. Import duties paid by export- ers on goods from bonded warehouses are refunded. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an escrow bank account and is released when the garments made from these imports are exported and the required documentation is provided to ver- ify the use of imports. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of the for- eign currency they exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of products spec- ified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circum- stances beyond the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank at the market-determined exchange rate. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; these currencies may not be imported from countries other than India. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Residents and non- residents may freely bring in other foreign bank notes but must declare them if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000. Capital Repatriation of capital requires prior approval from the NRB; approval is automatically granted, provided capital transfers have been cleared by the Industrial Promotion Board. Nepalese citizens, whether or not they reside in Nepal, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, and investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible to make remittances abroad for the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on acquired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act con- tains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related industries unless substantial transfers of technology are involved. Foreign inves- tors can hold 100 percent equity in large- and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 353 medium-scale industries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 10 million; for medium- scale industries, the asset value limit is NRs 50 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 50 million are consid- ered large-scale industries. Gold Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 12. The exchange rate was unified at the rate of NRs 49.58 (buying) and NRs 50.08 (selling) per US$1, and the exchange rate against the Indian rupee was changed to NRs 1.60 per Rs 1. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Imports and Import Payments July 1. The import license auction system was abol- ished, and rules governing imports were simplified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Lux- embourg, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portu- guese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above and below the cross rates based on the cen- tral rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).l The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1993, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas 6.34340 34.30020 115.23500 35.00910 3.15450 1.32266 1.65368 4.70454 25.43850 110.16750 28.93810 2.33952 0.98094 1.22644 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On December 31,1993, the mid- dle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.9409 per US$1. 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and nonconvertible cur- rencies, both spot and forward, at negotiated rates. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transac- tion required. Residents and nonresidents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency accounts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls, except for the reporting requirements (in accordance with the External Financial Relations Act of 1980). Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For their pay- ments to and receipts from nonresidents, residents are generally required to use the intermediation of banks or other institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000 or its equivalent in foreign cur- rencies, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settle- ments where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. Such accounts must be declared to the Netherlands Bank, and entries in them must be reported to the Bank in accordance with relevant regulations. In compliance with relevant UN Security Council Resolutions, certain restrictions are imposed on 2 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 355 financial transactions with Haiti, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quanti- tative restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries have been formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Union (EU) coun- tries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EU are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (i.e., transfers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic bank notes and coins or docu- ments of value. Payments for interest, dividends, 3 State trading countries are defined for this purpose as con- sisting of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coins that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Cer- tain exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are also prohibited. Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports. There is no surrender requirement for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which pay- ment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are not restricted, except that they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980. External capital transactions are unrestricted. For direct investment in the form of capital participa- tion (inward and outward), no license is required. Neither short-term lending (for less than two years) nor long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) requires a license. Pursuant to the Netherlands Bank's arrangements, issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper on behalf of residents and nonresidents (both bearing interest with a maturity term of two years or more and foreign shares) of f. 50 million or over must be reported to the Netherlands Bank by the lead man- agers at least one working day before the announcement of an issue in the market. The Neth- erlands Bank's approval is not required for the tim- ing of an issue. For all issues of guilder- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NETHERLANDS denominated bearer paper, management require- ments are in force. Lead managers must be entered in the register of credit institutions of the Nether- lands Bank and must have a full-fledged securities/ issuing department in the Netherlands.4 Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may have their total assets in the Netherlands remitted to them upon departure. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However, for prudential reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign cur- rency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, for- ward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' 4 The lead management requirements are expected to be revoked as of June 1,1994. freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be reported to the Netherlands Bank. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by secu- rities brokers and authorized banks or, if transac- tions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Banks and nonbank residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transac- tions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at the standard value-added tax rate of 17.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 2. The intervention threshold of the French franc in the ERM of the EMS was widened from ±2.25 percent to ±15 percent around the bilat- eral exchange rate. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1993 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents.3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Commerce, Industry, and Employment issues import licenses, where required. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible cur- rency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All payments made by residents to nonres- idents and receipts through authorized banks as JThe Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory, in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, European currency units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guil- der are considered foreign currencies. 3 Payments by certain entities, for example, international com- panies and pension funds, are exempted from the foreign exchange tax. well as through banks abroad must be reported to the central bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without the approval of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Imports whose delivery dates exceed payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the central bank. The importation of 58 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is sub- ject to quotas of 40 percent of the total value of domestic production. Some of these quantitative restrictions are being phased out and are being replaced by tariffs ranging from 12 percent to 25 percent. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The exportation of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require no licenses. Export proceeds must be repatriated but need not be surrendered. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be reported to the cen- tral bank. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to res- idents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Investments by residents in real estate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresi- dents require a license. Investment and disinvest- ment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antilles do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted) is permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank accounts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subject to limits set by the central bank and must always be positive and in currencies consid- ered "freely usable" as defined under Article XXX (f) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar, the external value of which is deter- mined by demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, however, retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market and may signal its desired exchange rate range. Foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. On December 31, 1993, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5591 and US$0.5580, respec- tively, per $NZ1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies at market-determined rates in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irre- spective of the source of the funds. On Augusts, 1982, New Zealand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free of control. Since February 1990, when exchange control regulations were abolished, no authoriza- tion has been required to deal in foreign exchange. The only remaining requirements are for purposes of statistical information (to assist the Department of Statistics and the Reserve Bank in prudential supervision of registered banks and in recording foreign exchange turnover statistics). The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand. Prohibitions and restrictions are imposed upon certain products, principally for reasons of human/plant/animal health consider- ations. Most of the restrictions are conditional. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, New Zealand notified the Fund on September 6,1990 that, in compliance with UN Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq, and similarly on September 30,1992, in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency,1 as may payments to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used to settle transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Most tariffs on industrial products were reduced by approximately one half over the period July 1, 1988-July 1,1992. The majority of the tariffs will be reduced by a further one third between July 1,1993 and July 1, 1996. The only tariffs over 20 percent apply to motor vehicles, tires, and other motor vehicle components, and certain products (includ- ing textiles, clothing, footwear, and carpets). Most tar iffs are ad valorem, but specific tariffs apply to some products (e.g., clothing) if they produce more revenue. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products, primarily plants, animals, and products considered danger- ous to human health or not in the public interest. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPAR- TECA),2 imports of qualifying goods enter duty-free from Australia and the SPARTECA countries. In addition, under the ANZCERTA, antidumping reme- 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 The islands under this arrangement constitute the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand)— Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 NEW ZEALAND dies have been replaced by domestic laws regulat- ing trade practices. Less comprehensive preferential trade arrange- ments affect specified imports from Canada, Malay- sia, and the United Kingdom. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the General- ized System of Preferences. Certain product areas are excluded from the coverage of the GSP (e.g., clothing, footwear, and motor vehicles). In most cases, these preferential rates are 80 percent of the normal tariff rates; in no case is the margin of pref- erence less for developing countries. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classified by the United Nations as "least developed." Special safeguard mechanisms apply under the GSP: a developing country with a per capita GNP equal to or greater than 70 percent of New Zealand's loses its preferential status under the cri- terion of "country graduation," and a developing country loses its preference with respect to specific tar iff items when minimum market share exceeds a minimum value under the criterion of "product graduation." Payments for Invisibles Financial institutions are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligations to nonresidents may be made freely, although there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provides a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provides for free trade in services based on national treatment. All services are covered except for those on a negative list prepared by each government; the list includes certain aspects of telecommunications, aviation, coastal shipping, and postal services; Australia's list also includes radio and television broadcasting and insurance, banking, insurance, and consultancy services. Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) need not be returned through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently restricted by quotas and other quantitative restric- tions imposed by its principal trading partners. For example, exports of lamb and butter to the Euro- pean Union and exports of beef and dairy products to the United States are subject to either quotas or voluntary export restraints. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided (or to be pro- vided) in New Zealand, by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand), and on behalf of overseas residents as well as interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment do not have to be repatri- ated. The ANZCERTA provides for liberalization of trade in services rendered by New Zealand resi- dents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as interest and dividends, is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission (OIC). The Overseas Investment Regulations were liberalized, effective August 24, 1989. Nonresident persons or compa- nies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company by purchasing or exchanging shares are required to obtain the consent of the OIC in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. However, if the consideration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ10 million, the company is exempt from this requirement. The $NZ10 million level also triggers the need for OIC approval when a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company or establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply in the commercial fishing and rural land sectors deemed to be sensitive. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 361 $NZ10 million trigger level does not apply to investments in these sectors. restrictions or licensing requirements on the impor- tation and exportation of gold. Gold Changes During 1993 Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Nicaragua is the Cordoba. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: an offi- cial rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, is deval- ued daily at an annual rate of 12 percent; and a financial exchange rate, which is determined freely in the exchange market. In addition, there is an unrecognized parallel market. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates in the official market were C$6.35 and C$5.39, respectively, per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the finan- cial market were C$6.38 and C$6.60 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency- denominated accounts may be opened with com- mercial banks. Nicaragua formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 30,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized com- mercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank approves all foreign exchange transactions on the basis of pri- ority criteria that are established in accordance with sources of foreign exchange. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign exchange may be effected through an authorized foreign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Importers using their own foreign currency accounts are not required to go through the exchange approval process, nor are they expected to reveal the sources of their funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the Cen- tral Bank has the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily con- vertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. All importers effecting payments through the official market are required to be registered with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. This requirement is waived for individuals who import only occasionally for their own needs. Importer registration certificates are valid for five years. For individual imports, other than those financed from an individual's own foreign currency deposit account or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific license is required from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development and registration is required at the Central Bank. In principle, general import licenses are valid for five years. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be set- tled in the official foreign exchange market (Central Bank and commercial banks). Some import pay- ments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through letters of credit. In addition to custom duties, certain imports are subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespective of origin, and to a customs fee. In addition, most com- modities, whether imported or domestically pro- duced, are subject to a 15 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are effected in the official markets. Pay- ments for other invisibles, such as travel, educa- tional expenses, family maintenance, and medical expenses take place through the financial market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except gold are free, requiring only registration (Registro Unico de Exportation) with the Central Bank. Exports of gold remain under the control of the Central Bank. Export registration cer- tificates are valid for 30 days. An export license is required for the exportation of traditional products. Foreign exchange proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 45 days of shipment. Exporters who fail to surrender their proceeds will lose their export autho- rization. They may retain the proceeds from nontra- ditional exports to countries outside the Central American area in special accounts at a commercial 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 363 bank and use the funds for import payment pur- poses. Exporters may use the proceeds from exports of bananas, coconuts and coconut by-products, and copra through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya to pay for imports con- sumed in these areas. They may retain all proceeds from exports from the free zone and 75 percent of proceeds from exports of seafood products to coun- tries outside the Central American area in special accounts with a commercial bank. Funds in these accounts may be used only for import payments; these exporters do not have access to the official for- eign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the financial market. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange persons arriving in Nic- aragua from abroad may bring in and use locally. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. For servicing private exter- nal debt, authorization depends on the availability of foreign exchange. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in inter- national gold markets and may sell gold to domes- tic, industrial, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967,1975, and 1980. Nat- ural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 10. The official rate of the cordoba was devalued from C$5 to C$6 per US$1 and would be depreciated daily at an annual rate of 5 percent. January 26. The Central Bank announced new regulations regarding the transactions to be effected in the official and financial markets. In the official market, in which the exchange rate is set by the Central Bank, only the Central Bank and authorized banks would be permitted to participate. In the financial market, in which the exchange rate is to be determined freely, authorized banks as well as for- eign exchange houses would be permitted to oper- ate. All merchandise transactions and direct investment proceeds must be effected through the official market, whereas other transactions may take place in the financial market. November 10. The daily rate of depreciation of the official rate was increased to an annual rate of 12 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO does not levy a commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Transfers by banks outside the Opera- tions Account Area are subject to an exchange com- mission at the rate of 2.5 percent. All of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on trans- fers outside the WAMU must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions, the domiciliation of exports, and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires prior authorization from the Financial Relations Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Such cover may be provided for pay- ments for permitted imports and for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, depending on the nature of the goods involved, and is not renewable. There is no official scheme for cur- rency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. l rThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Exchange control is administered by the Finan- cial Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the BCEAO, Postal Administration, or authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either in foreign cur- rencies through correspondent banks in France or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts As the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO bank notes circulating outside the territo- ries of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Foreign accounts in francs may not be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of certain goods (soft drinks, soap, masonry paint, perfumes, sheet iron, quicklime, beer, and certain categories of textiles) have been suspended. Apart from rice and cigarettes, all other imports are free of licensing requirements. Eye- glasses, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are subject to protective tariffs. Other products are 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 365 subject to customs tariffs ranging from 2.3 percent to 71 percent. All import monopolies and quasi monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1, 1985, the Societe Rationale de commerce et de production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the importation of specified commodities, includ- ing salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. For- eign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment date if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Relations Directorate, which, for certain transactions, has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer savings from their salaries with the prior approval of the External Relations Directorate, but these transfers are nor- mally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, if supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Residents traveling for tourist or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out the equivalent of up to CFAF 2 million in bank notes other than CFA franc bank notes; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective minis- ters of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourist and business travel. Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All resident travelers proceeding to countries that are not members of the WAMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their dis- posal at the time of departure. The re-exportation by nonresident travelers of means of payments other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Promo- tion. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des produits vivriers du Niger (OPVN). On July 10,1990, the export license requirements for peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cottonseed, and certain other imported items was abolished. All other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported com- modities to other countries require an exchange com- mitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destina- tion, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 Proceeds from Invisibles NIGER Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Opera- tions Accounts may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surren- der within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval from the exchange control authority and are restricted, but cap- ital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward and outward invest- ment, and the issuance, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substi- tuted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate develop- ment operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by Opera- tions Accounts. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance;2 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion to request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are those implying control of a com- pany or an enterprise; mere participation is not con- sidered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Lending abroad is also subject to prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower and when the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal mar- ket rate, and the proceeds are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of a foreign loan constitut- ing a direct investment is subject to the same formal- ities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loans were subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31,1988 and its amendments. The facili- ties granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. In addition, the new Invest- ment Code provides for regular or privileged treat- ment. Regular treatment provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nation- 2 Including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 3 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 367 als and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activ- ities. Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes—the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Niger (and the other member countries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of BCEAO bank notes in circulation outside the terri- tories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through autho- rized financial intermediaries remained guaran- teed. Following this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the for- eign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the member countries. The new regulations distin- guished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) coun- tries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to coun- tries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established limits pertaining to the amount of bank notes that can be taken out by travelers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes, other than CFA franc bank notes, for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the WAMU member countries revised upward the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourist travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances can be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective minis- tries of finance, could be used up to the ceilings indi- cated above for tourist and business travel to non-WAMU countries; (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of payment, the new regulations introduced for all WAMU countries a uniform requirement of declaration at customs and of surrendering within eight days all means of pay- ment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries that are not members of WAMU were required to declare in writing, at the time of depar- ture from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new provision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations revised upward to a uni- form limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation dem- onstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of pay- ment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira, the external value of which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of N 21.9 per US$1. Foreign exchange is sold directly by the Central Bank of Nigeria fortnightly to end users through des- ignated banks, which act as agents of the Central Bank. The banks are allowed to collect only the nor- mal charges and prescribed commissions. The Central Bank determines the allocation of foreign exchange on the basis of the type of industry, products, and trans- actions. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to pur- chase foreign exchange only from their clients at the official exchange rate, and are required to surrender the proceeds to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad, for remittances of profits and dividends, for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria, and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regulations. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Cen- tral Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized deal- ers must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for the transactions mentioned above. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira or in any foreign currency to an external account in Nige- ria. Settlements with the central banks of the mem- ber states of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearing House in West African Units of Account. Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresi- dent accounts: external accounts, nonresident accounts, domiciliary accounts, and blocked accounts. External accounts are maintained for diplomatic rep- resentatives of all countries and international organi- zations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of for- eign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign cur- rencies. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, pro- vided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked accounts are accounts to which funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act are credited. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required. The importation of the following products is prohibited: meat, poul- try (except day-old chicks), vegetables, processed wood, fresh fruit, mosquito repellant oils, textile fabrics, plastic domestic articles, furniture, beer, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, min- eral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at the equivalent of $1,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Government, are subject to preshipment inspection to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty.1 Unless a "Clean Report of l rThe following items are exempt from the inspection require- ment: gold; precious stones; works of art; explosives and pyro- technic products; ammunition; implements of war; live animals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or canned fruits and vegetables; scrap met- als; household and personal effects, including used motor vehi- cles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and refined petroleum products. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 369 Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to importers once every two weeks. The importers submit their applications and receive foreign exchange through their designated banks. Foreign exchange is allocated on the basis of the type of industry and products.2 Unutilized foreign exchange that was allocated to an importer must be surrendered to the Central Bank within one month. Payment for imports covered by confirmed let- ters of credit is made by the overseas correspon- dents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas corre- spondents. However, such payment is made on the understanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for imports cov- ered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submit- ted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspon- dent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the autho- rized dealer. Payments for Invisibles Persons needing foreign exchange to make invisi- ble payments must submit applications to the Cen- tral Bank through designated banks. Basic allowances are provided for some payments. As with imports, verification is on an ex post basis— that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained after the pur- chase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of $500 a year, and for business travel, the equivalent of $5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria, who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. However, when there is documentary evidence that an ade- As of February 4, 1994, manufacturing and agricultural sec- tors were allocated 50 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of total foreign exchange allocation. Of the remainder, 30 percent was allocated to imports of finished goods and 10 percent was sold for payments for invisibles. quate amount of foreign currency has been exchanged into local currency at any licensed bank or bureau de change, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by foreign visitors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatri- ate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers subject to documentation requirements. Final balance appli- cations involving the transfer of accumulated sav- ings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of domestic currency in excess of N 100 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohib- ited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of timber (processed and unprocessed), raw hide and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yams, and all imported food items are prohibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. All proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors are required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be received through the Central Bank or designated banks and surrendered to the Central Bank. The importation of domestic currency in excess of N 100 is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are approved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development subject to satisfactory doc- umentation, and transfers are effected through for- eign exchange bureaus. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any indi- vidual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nige- ria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 NIGERIA is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any non- resident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or over- drafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents maybe collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresi- dents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Remittable dividends may be rein- vested without the requirement that matching capi- tal must be imported. However, the granting of approved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, bank credit, or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital investment, the Industrial Development and Coordinating Com- mittee deals with all matters relating to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital investment made through authorized foreign exchange dealers are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to documentation requirements. Funds so approved may be repatriated. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt-conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Con- version Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commercial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instru- ments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt-conversion provisions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign exchange used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange purchases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) con- version for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and deter- mines eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are the follow- ing: (1) interest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be repa- triated for a minimum period of five years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such prof its/divi- dends are made or paid, whichever is later; (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective investment of the proceeds; repatria- tion of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 371 Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Min- istry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the impor- tation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 18. An auction system (Dutch type) was reintroduced to allocate foreign exchange to autho- rized dealers. April 1. The official exchange rate was pegged to N 21.9 per US$1, and foreign exchange began to be allocated to authorized dealers on a pro rata basis. December 17. Foreign exchange sales by the Cen- tral Bank were suspended. Imports and Import Payments March 1. The use of open accounts in import financing was prohibited. The method of import payments exceeding $5,000 was permitted only with confirmed and irrevocable letters of credit. September 15. Restrictions on the use of open accounts in import financing and on the method of import payments exceeding $5,000 were abolished. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 26. Foreign exchange bureaus were pro- hibited from selling foreign exchange. They were allowed to purchase foreign exchange only from their clients as agents of the Central Bank at the offi- cial exchange rate and required to surrender the proceeds to the Central Bank. February 4. The Central Bank issued guidelines for the allocation of foreign exchange directly to end-users through the banks designated as its agents. Authorized dealers were prohibited from conducting foreign exchange transactions directly with their clients for their own account, and were allowed to collect only the normal charges and pre- scribed commissions. February 17. Foreign exchange sales by the Cen- tral Bank were resumed. Imports and Import Payments February 4. Unutilized foreign exchange that was allocated to importers was required to be surren- dered to the Central Bank within one month. All import payments exceeding $1,000 were required to be made under letters of credit supported by the Import Duty Report and Clean Report of Findings issued by the Customs Office. Payments for Invisibles February 4. End-users must apply for foreign exchange allocation through designated banks. Payments for invisibles were allocated 10 percent of total amount of application once every two weeks. Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports by private and public sectors were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles February 4. All foreign exchange proceeds from services by private and public sectors were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The Norwegian authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the Bank of Norway may intervene from time to time to maintain stabil- ity in the market. The Bank of Norway quotes daily the exchange rate of the krone against 19 other cur- rencies1 and the European currency unit (ECU) for information purposes on the basis of the market rates. On December 31, 1993, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was Nkr 7.518 per US$1. Residents (Norwegian companies and private individuals) may freely enter into forward and interest rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 11,1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Norway in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of For- eign Affairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Norway notified the Fund on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro); these restrictions have been rein- forced in accordance with UN Security Council Res- olution No. 820 (1993). Restrictions have also been 1Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish Markka, French francs, Greek drachmas, Icelandic krona, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. imposed on financial transactions with Haiti (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 873/93 and No. 841/93), with the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (in accordance with UN Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 748/92), and with the Islamic Republic of Iran (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 670/90). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kro- ner in convertible krone accounts (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, below). Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without restriction. The main type of nonresident account is the convertible krone account. Such accounts may be held by resi- dents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other convertible krone accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of con- vertible currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other convertible krone accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any for- eign currency. Authorized banks are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents without restriction. Both convertible krone accounts and foreign exchange accounts must be reported to the Bank of Norway.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports of industrial goods do not require an import license, but all imports from Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), are prohib- ited. Certain textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Follow- ing Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1,1984, the global quo- tas formerly in force under Article XIX of the Gen- eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agree- 2 Residents may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without restriction. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 373 merits, which have been concluded with 19 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into under the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those that Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits. These quotas apply to all countries, and, for some of these products, import restrictions are imposed only seasonally. New and secondhand ships and certain categories of fishing vessels may be imported freely. The importation of radio remit- tance equipment, such as radio controls, is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecommunica- tions in respect of frequency. The importation of a small number of goods is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the types of payments a person (resident or nonresident) may take out of Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and foreign) must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any coun- try against a declaration or a license. Exports to Haiti, Iraq, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are pro- hibited. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited, with the exception of medical supplies and certain food items. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports to any country val- ued at not more than Nkr 2,000 are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammu- nition, this limit is Nkr 500, and for fish and fish products, Nkr 1,000. Export proceeds need not be repatriated to Norway. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange a person (resident or nonresident) may bring into Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 (both Norwegian and for- eign) must be reported to the customs authorities. Capital Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct investments in the form of share purchases must, however, be made through Norwegian stock- brokers. Securities subject to the stockbroker requirement and kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated financial insti- tutions, insurance companies, and stockbrokers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. However, foreign exchange banks and financial institutions subject to exposure regu- lation must submit reports on their net foreign cur- rency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of for- eign currency bonds, and residents are permitted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Purchases of life insurance policies abroad by residents are prohibited. Nonresidents may purchase Norwegian bonds and certificates without restriction. There is no restriction on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jew- elry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent, except gold coins produced after Jan- uary 1,1967. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement NORWAY earlier regulation, and this new regulation formally legalized the floating exchange rate arrangement.) January 8. A new regulation stating that the exter- nal value of the Norwegian krone shall be freely determined in the exchange market was promul- gated. (The peg to the ECU was de facto terminated on December 10, 1992 through a suspension of the Administration of Control March 15. The authority to regulate foreign exchange transactions of municipalities was trans- ferred from the Bank of Norway to the Ministry of Municipalities and Labor. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 per US$2.6008. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1993, the rates were R O l p er US$2.6042 (buying) and RO1 per US$2.5974 (selling). The commercial bank rates for other currencies are based on market rates in Lon- don. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and commercial banking sectors. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19,1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Oman notified the Fund, on January 27,1993, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited, as is the use of their currencies. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohib- ited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the importation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addi- tion, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for authorized imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and food- stuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be dis- posed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel, South Africa, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel, South Africa, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign natural or juridical persons requires prior approval and is regulated by the Law for the Orga- nization and Encouragement of Industry, which came into effect on January 15, 1979, and the For- eign Investment Law enacted in June 1983. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ventures are 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 OMAN offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional five years under certain conditions. The Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential inter- est rates for project financing in the petroleum, agri- cultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give assistance in preinvestment research. The direction of foreign capital to large production or manufacturing projects is encouraged. In addition, the Government provides loans at subsidized inter- est rates for those projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial produc- tion for exportation, industrial production using indigenous raw materials or labor, or the develop- ment of tourism. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Israel, South Africa, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan sets the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in transac- tions with authorized dealers. On December 31,1993, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 30.12 and PRs 30.2706, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 30.12 and PRs 31.4001, respectively, per US$1; the buying and selling rates forward up to 12 months were PRs 29.2164 and PRs 32.5296, respectively, per US$1. All foreign exchange transactions with the pub- lic must be conducted through authorized dealers and money changers and effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.2 percent is provided on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) for exports and imports effected under that arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover for private foreign cur- rency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as for for- eign currency loans under the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and interna- tional markets; the annual rates of the fee for differ- ent currencies as of February 28,1994 were as follows: deutsche mark, 8.24 percent; Japanese yen, 10.0 percent; pounds sterling, 7.58 percent; Swiss francs, 9.56 percent; and U.S. dollars, 8.20 percent. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans for working capi- tal requirements is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee in U.S. dollars based on the pre- mium charged by it on forward sales; the rate of the fee has been maintained at 10.0 percent since Janu- ary 24,1994. In July 1992, the State Bank began charging a 3 percent fee on its foreign exchange swaps for U.S. dollars and Japanese yen; the fee was raised to 3.5 percent with effect from February 11, 1993. The rates of this fee effective December 8,1993 are the following: U.S. dollar, 4 percent; pound ster- ling, 2.25 percent; deutsche mark, 2.25 percent; and Japanese yen, 5.75 percent. Residents and nonresidents may use foreign exchange to purchase foreign currency bearer certif- icates (FCBCs) with a maturity of up to five years denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. FCBCs are avail- able in various denominations (deutsche mark, from DM 100 to DM 100,000; Japanese yen, from ¥ 10,000 to ¥ 10 million; pounds sterling, from £ 100 to £ 50,000; and U.S. dollars, from $100 to $100,000). They may be freely brought into and taken out of the country, may be encashed at any time in Paki- stan rupees or in foreign exchange at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the encashment, and may be used by residents to undertake any current or international capital transactions. At the end of February 1994, the rates of return on the five-year certificate in different currencies were as follows: deutsche mark, 7.75 percent; Japanese yen, 5.0 per- cent; pounds sterling, 8.25 percent; and U.S. dollars, 7.50 percent. Bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dollars (DBCs) with a maturity of one year are also available. Anyone may purchase them without revealing the source of foreign exchange and may encash the accrued returns either in foreign exchange or in Pakistan rupees at the official rate. At the end of February 1994, the return on these cer- tificates was 0.25 percent above LIBOR. Foreign ex- change bearer certificates (FEBCs) denominated in Pakistan rupees are available in denominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000; their face value is 14.5 percent higher one year after issuance, 31 percent higher after two years, 52 percent higher after three years, 74 percent higher after four years, 99 percent higher after five years, and 131 percent higher after six years. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 Administration of Control PAKISTAN The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for certain pur- poses within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Paki- stan, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Paki- stan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the ACU (Bangladesh, India, Islamic Repub- lic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions are effected through the ACU in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel or South Africa are suspended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents of Pakistan are allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, and pro- ceeds from FEBCs, FCBCs, including DBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from services of resi- dents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistani firms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates range from 0.75 of 1 percent for three-month depos- its to 1.625 percent for three-year deposits. Nonresident accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresi- dent accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the curren- cies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistani nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts perma- nently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $5 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a matu- rity period of at least six months. 1 Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 379 Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. All items that do not appear on either list may be freely imported. The negative list in principle consists of items banned for religious and health reasons or to discourage con- sumption of luxury items, and goods banned in accordance with international agreements.2 The negative list of imports was shortened in July 1993, and it currently includes 79 items. Some items on the negative list may be imported under certain circumstances, principally by export indus- tries, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. No import licenses have been issued since July 17,1993. Importers may approach banks directly to open letters of credit and at the same time pay the 6 percent import license fee (previously collected by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports). Cer- tain imports require authorization with the follow- ing exceptions: goods in transit; personal baggage; certain imports over the land routes from the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the Islamic Repub- lic of Iran; and certain other items permitted under notification from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification from the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.3 Gen- erally, licenses are valid for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufactured, they may be valid for up to 24 months. Import licenses are subject to a fee of 6 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. Both the private sector and the pub- lic sector may import 570 specified items or catego- ries of goods directly from India. (2) Special provisions govern the importation by export indus- tries of items importable on fulfillment of condi- tions and of items on the negative list. Import payments may be made against irrevoca- ble letters of credit, provided that the letters do not stipulate payment of any amount by way of interest in the case of usance bills and, further, that in the case of books, journals, magazines, and periodicals, 2 Some of the currently prohibited imports fall outside these categories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Paki- stan and do not fit into the category of goods banned for reli- gious, health, or luxury consumption reasons). 3 Licensing restrictions apply only to arms and ammunition. they stipulate payment on a sight draft or usance bills basis. Imports on a consignment basis are allowed by the State Bank of Pakistan. When the importers desire to import on joint basis from any country either for the sake of their own convenience or econ- omy, or because of the suppliers' inability to supply goods in small consignments, the importers may establish joint letters of credit. For imports under barters or any other special trading arrangement, the letters of credit may be opened within such period as may be specified in the relevant public notice issued by the authorities. In case of imports under loans or credits, which require the contracts to be approved by the agencies of the Government of Pakistan, the importer shall open a letter of credit within 60 days of the date the contract is approved. In case of imports under suppliers' credit and the PAYE scheme, letters of credit may be opened only if the contract has been registered with the State Bank of Pakistan. Letters of credit are generally established for up to 12 months, with the following exceptions: (1) when machinery and millwork must be specifically fabricated and the period of manu- facture is more than 12 months, letters of credit shall be established with a validity period of up to 24 months; (2) for all items other than machinery and millwork the period of 12 months may be extended for an additional 24 months on payment of an additional fee of 0.25 percent of the unused value of the letter of credit for each period of 6 months from the date of its expiry; (3) in case of machinery, letters of credit may be extended for 36 months from the date of expiry of initial validity on additional payment of 0.25 percent of the unused value of the letter of credit for each 6-month period; and (4) if the letters of credit are opened against loans, credits, barters, or special trading arrange- ments whereby shipment could not take place owing to circumstances beyond the control of the importer, revalidation may be allowed within the validity of the loan, credit, barter, or special trading arrangement without additional payment. Payment of Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. Payments to Israel and South Africa are not permitted. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, trans- port insurance must be taken out with insurance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 PAKISTAN companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maxi- mum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton and cement, for which the maximum is 1 percent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other textile made-ups, carpets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33 V3 percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and the airline business is per- mitted without restriction provided that the required documents are submitted to the State Bank. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Paki- stani income tax authorities. Since August 30,1993, foreign exchange for pri- vate travel to countries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India is granted at the rate of $50 a day for up to 42 days during a cal- endar year on submission of travel documents to the State Bank. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The entitlement can be used in installments. Remit- tances for undergraduate and postgraduate studies abroad and correspondence courses are not restricted. Foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and sponsored cul- tural trips may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tuition fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the State Bank. Allowances for pro- fessional training abroad are allowed at $1,200 a month. Requests for foreign exchange in excess of $1,200 a month for professional training are referred to the State Bank duly accompanied by cogent rea- sons/supporting documents. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable business travel allowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FCBCs. Foreigners may make family remittances to the extent of the difference between the net income of the applicant and his estimated expenses in Paki- stan. In case the family of a resident Pakistani is temporarily living abroad for personal reasons, for- eign exchange will be provided upon bona fide request, provided that it is accompanied by the rec- ommendation of the Pakistani embassy in the coun- try concerned. Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Paki- stani nationals) may take out with them foreign cur- rency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities4 to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (e.g., maize, gram, split gram, and camels), quality controls (such as batter- ies, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (e.g., raw cotton and onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. is responsible for the exportation of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; Basmati and other rice are exported through the Rice Exportation Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., but private traders are also allowed. Cement, which may be exported by public and private sector enti- ties, is subject to a quota. Chemical fertilizers may also be exported by private sector units. Trade sam- ples that may be exported without prior approval from the State Bank are limited to the equivalent of $1,000; the limit for leather garments is 50 pieces, without a value limit. There are no quantitative or value ceilings if samples are damaged. The State Bank requires a declaration from the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed time except for goods manufactured in the export pro- cessing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may 4 Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (excluding iron and steel manufactured goods), edible oils, grains, gur, sari and jaggary powder, certain dairy products, cer- tain live animals, animal fats, beef, mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cow- hides and calfhides, wheat straw, charcoal, pepper, certain ani- mal products, intoxicants, certain seeds, raw cotton, wooden crates, arms, ammunition, explosives, fissionable material, maps and charts, paper waste, unfinished hockey sticks and blades, human skeletons, all imported goods, and antiques. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 381 allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to the Islamic State of Afghanistan is not required. Under the Export Processing Unit (EPU) Scheme, selected industries, raw materials, intermediate goods used for the manufacturing of exports, imports of machinery, and components not manu- factured locally are exempt from import duties and local taxes.5 The export-output ratio required to qualify for the EPU scheme is 50 percent in the first two years and 60 percent in the third year and beyond. Export financing at concessional rates is pro- vided for all exports, with the exception of 24 speci- fied items,6 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,7 or, alterna- tively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. However, the State Bank is phasing out its outstanding stock of concessional loans to the export sector (amounting to PRs 20.4 billion on June 30, 1992). Under the new system, the State Bank refinances 75 percent of the outstanding stock of the preceding year and places an amount of export finance provided by the lending bank exceeding the remainder in a blocked account in favor of the lending bank. Interest is paid on the account at the average weighted treasury bill rate from the last auction. The amount refinanced by the State Bank will be eliminated over the next three years. Rebates of 25 percent and 50 percent are available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of semifinished goods and finished goods, respectively, that are manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering products, garments, leather 5 The industries included are textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and Pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furni- ture, sporting goods, surgical instruments, and cutlery. 6 The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feedstuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; crude fertil- izer; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared form. 7 Under specified conditions, authorized dealers may grant concessional finance, without the State Bank's approval, against an irrevocable letter of credit or a firm export order. and leather products, textile products, and hand-knotted carpets and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent; the rebate rate on engineering goods is 90 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to use a maximum of 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports for pay- ments of foreign exchange obligations in respect of royalties, technical fees, and incidental charges. Under the Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme, raw materials and intermediate goods imported or pur- chased locally and used for manufacturing for exports are exempt from import duties and local taxes. At present, the following industries are cov- ered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furniture, sporting goods, and surgical instruments. Export duties are levied on raw cotton, cotton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, raw hides and skins, and onyx blocks. The exportation of cows is subject to quota restrictions. Exporters who are members of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promotion and related costs. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, foreign exchange earned from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 500 a person in Pakistan currency notes from India; the limit for other sources is PRs 3,000 a person. There is no limit on the importation of other currency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender in India; these coins may be imported only up to the value of Rs (Indian) 5 a person at a time. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promo- tion expenses. Capital Approval from the Government is required for the establishment of industries involving (1) arms and ammunition; (2) printing securities and cur- rency, and minting coins; (3) high explosives; (4) radioactive substances (investments in these areas by domestic investors are also subject to approval); and (5) agricultural land, forestry irriga- tion, real estate, insurance, and health. Currently, the Foreign Private Investment (Pro- motion and Protection) Act of 1976 does not guar- antee repatriation of capital for investments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 PAKISTAN undertaken before September 1954. These invest- ments are regulated by the terms and conditions governing each investment. Amendments to these provisions are under consideration. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may reg- ister their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions may be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on out- ward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistani residents is permitted through FEBCs and must be reported to the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person and the country to which the transfer is to be made. For- eign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfers of securities. The issuance, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities in favor of nonresident Pakistanis is per- mitted, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and invest- ment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capi- tal and return. Pakistani securities held by non- resident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against pay- ments abroad, subject to the same terms and condi- tions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to Pakistani nationals residing outside Pakistan and to foreign nationals residing in or outside Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, on a repatriable basis against payment in for- eign exchange. Public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan and private limited or unlisted public limited com- panies engaged in manufacturing are permitted to issue or transfer shares on a repatriable basis to a nonresident Pakistani national, a person with two nationalities (including Pakistani), a foreign national, or a company incorporated outside Pakistan (exclud- ing branches in Pakistan of such companies and a company owned or controlled by a foreign govern- ment), provided that the issue price or purchase price in the case of a listed company is not less than the price as certified by a stock exchange broker and that in the case of private limited or unlisted public limited companies, the value of share is paid in for- eign exchange either through a remittance of foreign currency from abroad or out of a foreign currency account maintained by the subscriber in Pakistan. Nonresidents are permitted to invest in corporate debt instruments on a repatriable basis against pay- ment in foreign exchange. Permission is not required for exports of share certificates by companies whose shares can be issued or transferred in favor of nonresidents cov- ered by the general authority granted by the State Bank. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets not covered by repatria- tion arrangements must be credited to nonresident accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities pay- able in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan may under- write share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan, provided that the total value of shares in each issue does not exceed 30 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, whichever is less. The foreign banks may also under- write public issues of participation term certificates, term finance certificates, and modaraba certificates, provided that when the terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, only 30 of total capi- tal may be offered to the general public. Pakistani nationals residing abroad may invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remitting for- eign exchange or by debiting their foreign currency accounts in Pakistan; dividends, as well as the pro- ceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, pro- vided that tax, if applicable, is paid. Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatri- ated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank; such permission is not usually granted. Pakistani nationals and foreign nationals coming from abroad are allowed to bring in unlimited quantities of gold in their personal baggage. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 30. The restriction that authorized deal- ers could sell foreign exchange only up to $1,000 a person every two years for private travel to coun- tries other than the Islamic State of Afghanistan, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 383 Bangladesh, and India, irrespective of the number of days spent abroad, was eliminated. The revised private travel quota would be $50 a day, with a maximum of $2,100 in a calendar year, which is released by an authorized dealer upon submission of the relevant documents. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be surrendered to an authorized dealer. December 30. The remittance to family members of a resident of Pakistan temporarily living abroad for personal reasons was permitted upon bona fide request, provided it is accompanied by the recom- mendations of Pakistan's embassy in the country concerned. Dependents of Pakistani nationals who go abroad for education may be granted foreign exchange for their living expenses in accordance with instructions Exchange Manual. laid down in the Foreign Exports and Export Proceeds November 1. The exportation of raw cotton was temporarily banned. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 11. The restricted list was abolished, and the items on this list were transferred to a list of per- mitted items subject to fulfillment of certain condi- tions for importation. February 8. The value ceiling applicable to the importation of machinery was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to coins including several commemorative coins in small denominations. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Panama formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 26,1946. Administration of Control In general, import or export licenses are not required. Only a few products are banned or require special import permits. Individuals or com- panies engaged in import activities require a com- mercial or industry license, which is issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI). Spe- cific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The MICI, through the Pan- ama Trade Development Institute, is responsible for determining all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agree- ments with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agreement with Mexico, 70 products may be exported from Panama to Mexico. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), through various product-specific commissions, determine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. There are no quantitative restrictions on indus- trial products, but import quotas, established by the MIDA and the IMA, are maintained on some prod- ucts in the agricultural sector and agro-industries, including timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. The tariff schedule is based on the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN). Most tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. The present range of tar iffs for the main agricultural products is between 30 percent and 100 percent. For some products, the tax is specific and is calculated on the basis of weight (per kilo). In cases where both tax rates are stated, the applicable rate is the one that produces the higher tax revenue. If the tax is specific, an additional tax of 7.5 percent on the c.i.f. value of imports is charged, except for: (1) specified pharmaceutical products and food- stuffs, for which the additional tax rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; and (2) books and certain agricultural inputs, which are duty free. Many local industries are protected by tar iffs aimed at promoting local and export industries. Exemptions from import and customs duties on equipment, machinery, and spare parts apply mainly to export-oriented industries, and to industries concentrating on the local market, pro- vided that certain conditions are met. A tariff reform program involving reductions in tariff ceil- ings and conversion of specific tariffs to ad valo- rem rates was implemented beginning August 1991. All imports into the Colon Free Zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. The city of Colon has been designated a free port to attract retail business geared to the tourist trade, but as of the end of 1993 this status has been delayed. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Certain 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 385 nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost of production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. The export-processing zones are exempt from all taxes (and as such receive no tax credit certificates). Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Any product (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Colon Free Zone, and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and re-exported without being subject to customs procedures. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on tickets purchased for travel starting in Panama. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Some foreign-controlled banks are autho- rized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with res- idents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses, by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The tariffs on selected horticultural products were reduced to 30 percent. April 1. The tariffs on 261 industrial and agricul- tural products were reduced to 40 percent and 50 percent, respectively. September 1. Quantitative restrictions on major agricultural products, including lentils, ungrained maize, sorghum, certain beans, potatoes, and onions, were replaced with tariffs. Price controls on these products were eliminated, and tariff rates on imports of agricultural and final goods were unified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major trading partners. On Decem- ber 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$0.918 and US$1.0182, respec- tively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exporters and importers are free to take out for- ward cover with the commercial banks at market- determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its uncovered forward posi- tion. At its discretion, the Bank of Papua New Guinea may intervene in the forward foreign exchange market. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4,1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Papua New Guinea notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a for- eign currency must be paid in foreign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Authorized foreign exchange dealers (at present, the five commercial banks) may open and maintain foreign currency accounts and foreign currency term deposits in Papua New Guinea for residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security, and imports of a number of items, including meat, sugar, and pork, are prohibited to protect domestic markets. The importation of most fresh fruits and vegetables is banned (except for apples, onions, and potatoes for processing). In the event of shortages on the domestic market, special import licenses are issued and imports are subject to a 50 percent tariff. Authorized dealers may, without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quo- tas or licensing requirements. The tariff regime con- sists of the following rates: (1) essential items, including food staples (rice, and canned fish and meat that is not produced domestically), and medi- cal and educational supplies, duty free; (2) basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials, 10 percent; (3) intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic substi- tutes, 30 percent; and (4) luxury goods, including jewelry, cosmetics, poker machines, and nonessen- tial food and beverage items, 50 percent (except for television sets, cameras, video recorders, and hi-fi equipment, for which the tariff rate is 10 percent). 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles PAPUA NEW GUINEA 387 Approval is readily granted for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documen- tation is produced. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for any purpose for all adult individuals or corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of the equivalent of K 500,000, except payments for the servicing of for- eign debt, must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for approval. Payments for the servic- ing of foreign debt may be approved without a fixed limit by authorized dealers. For payments or transfers exceeding the equivalent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K200 in notes and K5 in coins; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any cur- rency they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on the condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payments for goods exported must be received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds must be sold to the Bank of Papua New Guinea or an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to com- ply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including travelers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for certain goods (e.g., logs, pearls, fish- ery and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Valuation and Control) Act. Log export licenses are issued subject to minimum export price guidelines. There is no export license requirement on timber. Although exports of most unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been temporarily waived, except those on fishery and forestry prod- ucts, owing to the continued weakness in primary commodity prices. Export taxes on logs range from 13 percent to 33 percent. Fish exports are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea or for its reten- tion. Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed, provided that tax clearance certificates are produced. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. Autho- rized dealers may approve outward investments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year. Income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments held and income received must be submitted annually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 10,000 in any calendar year. Permission is required for residents to enter into an agreement to borrow in foreign currencies. How- ever, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses involved in min- eral resources exploration, up to a maximum limit equivalent to K 5 million, provided that the term is for not less than three years and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Repayment of princi- pal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commenc- ing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstand- ing borrowing of up to the equivalent of K 5 million; the maximum debt-to-equity ratio for net aggregate borrowing in excess of the equivalent of K 5 million is determined by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource exploration activities, inward investment is considered non-interest-bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the minimum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Authorized dealers may approve applications for inward direct investment and for inward portfolio investment, provided that the aggregate amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PAPUA NEW GUINEA does not exceed K 500,000 a year. Applications for larger investments must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea are not regulated. The exportation of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, the licenses are contained in their respective mining agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, specific export licenses are required from the central bank. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement September 1. The changes in the forward foreign exchange cover arrangements of the Bank of Papua New Guinea, which began in January 1,1993, were completed. In January, the Bank of Papua New Guinea began quoting forward rates on the basis of international interest rate differentials. In July, the Bank of Papua New Guinea ceased to provide for- ward cover to the open positions of commercial banks on an individual contract basis and began to underwrite the total open position of individual commercial banks. At the same time, the commer- cial banks were allowed to freely determine their open positions, subject to prudential limits. After September, the Bank of Papua New Guinea would offer forward cover to commercial banks only at its discretion. Imports and Import Payments September I. Imports of cement were subject to licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds November 25. The export duty rate on logs was raised to a range of 13-33 percent from a range of 10-30 percent. Gold November 25. The 5 percent export tax on alluvial gold sales was eliminated. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments March 8. The basic rate of 1 percent was increased to 11 percent. The protective rate was increased to 33 percent from 30 percent, and the luxury rate was increased to 55 percent from 50 percent except on those items whose tariff was reduced to 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds March 8. The duties on logs were increased to a range of 20^8 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank of Paraguay intervenes when necessary to smooth out undesir- able fluctuations, it does not interfere with underly- ing market trends. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Private and public transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, ser- vices, and private capital transactions are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses. On December 31, 1993, the aver- age rate prevailing in this market was (21,842 per US$1. Public debt-service payments and payments for services by the Government are channeled through the Central Bank of Paraguay at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No com- missions are assessed on these transactions if debt- ors have foreign exchange on deposit with the Central Bank. The commercial banks are not required to trans- fer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank but must maintain a daily net position equivalent to no more than 50 percent of their capital and reserves. They are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank for statistical purposes. Commercial banks are per- mitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Administration of Control The Central Bank has the authority, under the constitution, to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other technical agencies within the Government; in practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is responsible for the execu- tion of the decisions of the Economic Cabinet. The Central Bank supervises, through the Superinten- dency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions car- ried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing arrangements of the Latin American Integration Association. Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products require authorization from the appropriate agency, depending on the product. These include table wine in bulk, natural grape concentrate, rice in the husk or processed in any way, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. Imports of most petroleum and petroleum products are made through the National Petroleum Company, Petro- par. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and aviation fuel may be imported by the private sector. All import- ers must be registered at the Central Bank. The tariff regime is as follows: zero tax on inputs, 5 percent on capital goods, and 10 percent on con- sumer goods, except automobiles, on which a rate of 15 percent or 20 percent is applied. Banks collect the tax at the time of delivery of documents for cus- toms clearance or when the import payments are made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from tariffs: imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; furniture acquired through inheritance; all imports exempted according to international treaties; the accompanied baggage of international passengers or nationals returning to establish resi- dence in Paraguay; books and periodicals; and imports under Decree Law No. 60/90. Certain imports to be used by the tourism industry located in the border cities of Ciudad del Este, Pedro Juan Caballero, and Encarnacion are taxed at the rate of 10 percent. As a member of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), which came into effect at the end of November 1991, Paraguay has scheduled the elimination of all trade barriers with Argentina, 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 PARAGUAY Brazil, and Uruguay by December 31, 1995. The July 1992 tariff reform put Paraguay ahead of the schedule of tariff reductions required by MERCOSUR Special protective rates of 3 percent to 35 percent are levied on 439 tariff categories, which have been exempted from the schedule of tariff reductions required under MERCOSUR; the list of exemptions will be reduced to 281 tariff categories when Brazil and Uruguay present their proposals for reducing their lists of exempted categories. Imports of a number of products that might jeop- ardize national security, public order, or public health are prohibited. Import restrictions may be imposed to protect the domestic industry from unfair competition. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to lift import restrictions on basic food- stuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic produc- tion shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the binational entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travel- ers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free exchange market. Under Decree Law No. 60/90, the Government grants exemptions from taxes, cus- toms, and import surcharges to proposed invest- ments that are duly registered and approved. Payments for Invisibles Gold Payments for current invisibles are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic cur- rency. A 2.5 percent value-added tax is levied on international transport tickets issued in the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs, unfinished beams, and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, livestock, horses, wild animals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certifi- cate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, depending on the product exported. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents and sold to authorized banks. Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that residents may hold; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; pay- ments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The exemption of duties on imports for the Government was eliminated. January 1. Imports of fresh vegetables were pro- hibited for sanitary reasons. January 1. The tariff rate on certain products to be consumed by the tourism industry was raised to 10 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol, the exter- nal value of which is freely determined by partici- pants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1993, the average interbank transaction rate, as registered and published by the Superintendency of Banking, was S/. 2.15 per US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in any currency, including the U.S. dollar, and the cross-rate relationships with currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar in the international market. Enterprises and natural persons may hold for- eign exchange balances abroad and in domestic banks. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating only in the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in for- eign currencies may be held with domestic banks. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Exchange houses are authorized to purchase for- eign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the External Debt Committee. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC). Moreover, as of January 1983, enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to the GDPC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments of unguaranteed suppliers' credits of commercial banks and official loans obtained from Eastern European countries. each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. No other imports are restricted. Imports of raw materi- als and intermediate goods are exempt from import duties, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime. All monopolies on the importation of goods have been abolished, including the monopoly over the importation of milk powder and wheat by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing, and that over crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives by PETROPERU, a state- owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 18 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to the import duty; exempted from the value-added tax are some agricultural products and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centimeters). The tariff regime consists of rates of 25 percent (maximum) and 15 percent, excluding imports subject to trade agreements. Advance payments for all imports are allowed without restriction. Legislation has been enacted requiring preinspection at the port of embarkation by international firms for imports exceeding $2,000 (f.o.b.). Payments for Invisibles Payments for almost all invisibles other than public debt service are not subject to payments authorization. Remittances of net profits require a prior tax clearance. Foreign investment by petroleum compa- nies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. Prescription of Currency Exports and Export Proceeds Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezu- ela may be made through accounts maintained with Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cottonseed cakes, natural rubber, and mineral ores. State enterprise monopolies over the exportation of mining and petroleum products 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 PERU were eliminated in 1991. Proceeds from exports are not subject to a repatriation requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Capital Outward capital transfers, including amortiza- tion of private sector debts that are not guaranteed by the Government, are not restricted. Short-term trade credits that have been subject to a refinancing agreement or assumed by the Government began to be rolled over beginning August 1, 1993. Other short-term trade credits may be repaid in accordance with bilateral agree- ments concluded before June 1992 or through renegotiation af ter that date with the approval of the External Debt Committee. New foreign investments must be registered with the National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology. Foreign companies incorporated in Peru may benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement under the same conditions as domestic enterprises. Investments in the mining sector are governed by the General Mining Law, enacted in June 1992. The Government may grant tax incentives to mining concessionaires (initiating large-scale investment programs). Under the Private Sector Investment Guarantee Regime, the Government guarantees nondiscrimi- natory treatment for foreign investors and private enterprises, protection of property rights, the devel- opment of any economic activities, free internal and external trade, and capital repatriation. In addition, investors may enter into contracts that guarantee tax stability, nondiscriminatory treatment, foreign currency availability, capital repatriation, free labor contracts, and export incentives. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- ket. However, the authorities intervene when neces- sary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rates for buying and selling were P 27.5 and P 27.9, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of the Philippines is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading center. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) or by telephone. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Without prior approval, non-Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may engage in business in the Philippines or invest in a domestic enterprise up to 100 percent of their capital. Nonresidents may pur- chase foreign exchange from authorized agent banks only up to the amount they have converted into pesos. Pursuant to Circular No. 1353, dated September 1, 1992 (superseded by Circular No. 1389) foreign exchange may be freely sold and purchased outside the banking system. Foreign exchange received in the Philippines or acquired abroad may also be deposited in foreign currency accounts. However, in order that foreign loans and foreign investments can be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, the proceeds of such for- eign loans and foreign investments must continue to be sold to authorized agent banks for pesos. All categories of banks (except offshore banking units) duly licensed by the Central Bank are considered authorized agent banks. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that long and short positions do not exceed 25 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of unim- paired capital. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN countries, provided that the Central Bank is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for con- version into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of individual or corporate non- residents without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from or proceeds of conversion of prop- erties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, below). Residents are allowed to maintain deposits abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, the importation of cer- tain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of public health and safety, national security, inter- national commitments, and development and pro- tection of local industries. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Bel- gian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the Central Bank. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 PHILIPPINES Imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. Freely importable products may be processed by autho- rized agent banks without prior approval or clear- ance from any government agency. To import regulated products, a clearance of permit is required from the appropriate government agency (including the Central Bank). Prohibited products are those that may not be imported under existing laws. Import arrangements not involving payments using foreign exchange purchased from the bank- ing system, such as self-funded/no-dollar imports^ and importations on consignment basis, are allowed without prior approval from the Central Bank. Under the Comprehensive Imports Supervi- sion Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 from all countries if they are declared in the shipping documents as off-quality, used, secondhand, scraps, off-grade, or a similar term indicating that the arti- cle is not brand-new. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange to service payments for imports under letters of credit (L/C), documents against acceptance (D/A), docu- ments against payments (D/P), open account (O/A) arrangement, and direct remittance. Letters of credit must be opened on or before the date of shipment and are valid for one year. Only one letter of credit may be opened for each import transaction; amend- ments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. The D/A and O/A procedures are restricted to oil firms; produc- ers and manufacturers, whether for the domestic or export market; franchised public utility concerns; and importers-traders importing raw materials required by domestic manufacturers. Separate regulations apply to imports into spe- cific regions by barter traders but these arrange- ments can be made without prior approval from the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to residents for payments of any nontrade transactions against appropriate written applications without limit and without prior approval from the Central Bank, except for payments related to foreign loans or investments that require documentation show- ing central bank approval and/or registration. Full and immediate repatriation of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents from all types of investment may be effected directly through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. However, service payments relating to foreign loans or foreign direct investments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are lim- ited to those transactions whose original capital transfer is sold for pesos at authorized banks and has previously been registered with the Central Bank. Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred for the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current income may be transferred. Resident and nonresident travelers must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 5,000 in domestic bank notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P 2,700 for first-class passage and P 1,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of P 1,350 for first-class pas- sengers and P 810 for economy-class passengers are provided for groups of people traveling for recog- nized special purposes. Reduced rates of P 400 for first-class passengers and P 300 for economy-class passengers are provided for dependents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Over- seas Employment Administration. Departing non- residents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos of up to a maximum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign exchange (calculated at prevailing exchange rates) without proof of sales of foreign exchange to autho- rized agent banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are allowed without restriction, except for those that are regulated or prohibited for rea- sons of national interest. Exports of selected seeds and shoots of native plants, endangered fish and wildlife (including selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. All exports must be covered by export declara- tions or permits. Authorized agent banks may issue and amend an export declaration without prior approval from the Central Bank. Payments for exports may be made in prescribed currencies, under the following forms without prior central bank approval: L/C, D/P, D/A, O/A, cash against documents arrangements, consignment, export advance, and prepayment. Foreign exchange receipts or earnings of resi- dents from exports may be sold for pesos to autho- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 395 rized banks or outside the banking system, retained, or deposited in foreign currency accounts, whether in the Philippines or abroad, and they may be used freely for any purpose. There are no export taxes. Trade with Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Romania, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. no longer requires clearance. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no mandatory surrender requirements on proceeds from invisibles, and they may be used without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 5,000 in domestic bank notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Capital All inward investments need to be registered with the Central Bank. The registration of a foreign investment with the Central Bank is required only if the foreign exchange needed to service the repatria- tion of capital and remittances of dividends and profits originates in the banking system. Foreign exchange proceeds from registered investments and foreign loans must be sold to authorized agent banks for pesos in order to purchase foreign exchange for related servicing from authorized agent banks. When applications for new inward for- eign investments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of industry in which the investment is made, as long as (1) it does not violate the nationalization law and its requirements; (2) there is inward remittance for cash investments; and (3) investment in kind covers only machinery and equipment, raw materials, supplies and spare parts, and other items necessary for the operation of the invested firm. The law guar- antees full repatriation of cash investment in export-oriented industries that have been regis- tered with the Central Bank, in enterprises regis- tered with the Board of Investments (BOI), and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. Foreign companies are eligible to obtain loans in domestic currency from domestic sources, pro- vided that they have a maximum debt-equity ratio of at most 60:40 in high-priority sectors, of 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and of 50:50 in low-prior- ity sectors. Investments in domestic commercial banks registered with the Central Bank may be repatriated without restriction. Foreign direct investments need not be registered with the Central Bank, except when foreign exchange to service repatriation of capital and divi- dend net profit remittances are to be funded from the banking system. Foreign direct investments may be either (1) foreign equity in Philippine firms or enterprises; (2) investment in government securi- ties or securities listed on the stock exchange; or (3) investment in money instruments or bank deposits. Foreign direct investments may be in cash or in kind. Investments are permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, includ- ing rescheduled debt, may be converted into equity investment. Investments duly registered with the Central Bank or an accepted custodian bank are entitled to full and immediate repatriation of divi- dends, profits, and savings without prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. Outward investments by resident natural and juridical persons may be made freely, except those purchased from authorized agent banks that exceed $1 million an investor a year; such investments require prior central bank approval. All public and certain private sector loans from foreign creditors, offshore banking units, and For- eign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs) must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. These loans include (1) publicly guaranteed loans; (2) those covered by foreign exchange guarantees by local commercial banks; (3) those guaranteed by FCDUs and funded or collateralized by offshore loans or deposits; and (4) medium- and long-term loans obtained by private commercial banks and financial institutions for relending to public or pri- vate enterprises. Approval for public sector loans must be obtained before actual negotiations com- mence. Other private sector loans from the above- mentioned creditors require prior approval from and /or registration at the Central Bank only if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange pur- chased from the banking system. However, subject to certain conditions and requirements, the follow- ing short-term loans (not exceeding 360 days) do not require prior central bank approval and may be serviced out of foreign exchange purchased from the banking system: (1) loans of financial institu- tions for normal interbank transactions; (2) private sector export advances from buyers abroad; and (3) loans from FCDUs of commodity service export- ers, producers, and manufacturers, including oil companies and public utility concerns. Loans requiring prior central bank approval are normally expected to finance export-oriented and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 PHILIPPINES BOI-registered projects, projects listed in the Invest- ment Priorities Plan and the Medium-Term Public Investment Program, and projects that may be declared priority under the country's socioeco- nomic development plan by the National Economic and Development Authority or Congress. Medium- and long-term loans may finance foreign exchange and local costs exclusive of working capital. Short- term loans may finance only foreign exchange requirements of projects, except pre-export financ- ing requirements, which may also be used to cover peso costs. Terms of loans to be obtained by the national Gov- ernment and government corporations must be in accordance with the provisions of pertinent laws, although other loans may be made on terms similar to those prevailing in the international capital markets. Seventeen foreign banks are operating offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transac- tions with nonresidents and with other offshore banking units. They are permitted to lend to resi- dent importers and exporters, provided that such loans do not have public guarantees, that the funds have been remitted from abroad and sold to the banking system, and that loans are authorized by the Central Bank. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos exclusively with domestic agent banks to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay desig- nated local beneficiaries of nonresident Philippine or multinational companies the equivalent of for- eign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore banking units may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Cen- tral Bank. Under the Foreign Investments Act of 1991, non-Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may, upon registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, conduct business in the country or invest in domestic enterprises up to 100 percent of capital unless participation is prohibited by existing law. However, enterprises seeking to apply for incentives, as well as foreign investors in export enterprises, must also register with the BOI. All industrial enterprises, whether owned by nationals or nonnationals, shall comply with the environmental standards set by the Government. Gold Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the Central Bank. All other forms or types of gold may, at the option of the owner or pro- ducer and with the consent of the Central Bank, be sold and delivered to the Central Bank. Producers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the lat- est London fixing price and the prevailing Philip- pine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official interna- tional reserves. The Central Bank may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and industrial users, at the Central Bank's gold-selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including cost of conversion and packaging. The exportation of gold in any form, except that produced by small-scale miners, is permitted. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially of gold and gold coins, and those without any indication of actual fineness of gold content. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines, as fol- lows: a 1 Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 Piso Douglas Mac- Arthur centenary coin (1980); the 1,500 Piso Pope John Paul II coins (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 Piso Bataan-Corregidor coin (1982); a 2,500 Piso Aquino- Reagan coin (1986); and a 10,000 Democracy Restored coin (1992). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control April 13. Central Bank Circular No. 1389 setting forth the status of the Central Bank's rules and reg- ulations on current accounts, capital accounts, for- eign currency deposit units, offshore banking units, and representative offices of foreign banks was issued. The circular repealed provisions of other rules and regulations that are incompatible with the circular. Included among the changes were modifi- cations to the list of prohibited exports and the lib- eralization of limitations in repatriating capital, profits, and dividends pursuant to foreign direct investments. June 23. (1) Offshore banks were authorized to lend under trade facilities; (2) short-term loans from offshore banking units to private importers/export- ers would be permitted, provided that there are no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 397 public guarantees of such loans and that foreign exchange has been remitted from abroad and sold to the banking system; assignment of loans by creditors would, however, require prior approval from the Central Bank (Central Bank Circular No. 1393). September 15. (1) All references to the Central Bank of the Philippines in Circular No. 1389 were amended to read the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas; (2) offshore banking units were authorized to issue and register export declarations and open letters of credit for importations of resident-borrowers, pro- vided that such importations would be funded by foreign currency loans from offshore banking units authorized by the Central Bank (Central Bank Cir- cular No. 5 of Series 1993); (3) private sector loans not guaranteed by foreign governments or official credit agencies and used to finance imports of freely importable products under deferred letters of credit and private sector loans granted by foreign companies to their local branches were included on the list of loans that do not require prior approval from the Central Bank; and (4) applications to pur- chase foreign exchange for outward investments, whether or not prior central bank approval is required, were required to be accompanied by (a) a project feasibility study, investment proposal/sub- scription agreement, bond/stock offering circular, and other documents showing the nature and place of the investment; and (b) a written undertaking to transfer to the Philippines and sell for pesos through authorized banks the dividends/earnings or divestment proceeds from outward investments that were funded by foreign exchange purchased from authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 Groszy per 1 Zloty), the external value of which is pegged to a basket of five currencies.1 Since October 14, 1991, a crawling peg policy has been followed. Under this policy, the zloty is being depreciated by Zl 16 a business day against the basket, subject to a maximum of 1.6 percent a month. The exchange rates between the zloty and other convertible cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned on international markets. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes exchange rates for the European currency unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 28 countries considered market econ- omies.2 The spread for the buying and selling rates for notes and coins is set at 4 percent.3 Rates for cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar are set daily and are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in inter- national markets. On August 29,1993, the dollar was devalued by 8 percent. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars were Zl 20,917 and Zl 21,721, respec- tively, per US$1. Since October 1,1992, the National Bank of Poland has not published exchange rates for trans- actions between it and domestic commercial banks. Since April 14,1993, the rates have been published daily for two currencies—deutsche mark and U.S. dollars—and the buying and selling rates have been set within a spread of 1 percent around the middle rates. lrThe basket consists of (figures in parentheses represent weights) the U.S. dollar (45 percent); the deutsche mark (35 per- cent); the pound sterling (10 percent); the French franc (5 per- cent); and the Swiss franc (5 percent). 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 3 Since January 13, 1992, banks in Poland have been given more freedom in determining the exchange rates to use in for- eign exchange transactions. Specifically, they are permitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2 percent around the middle rate set by the NBP. Banks' transactions with the NBP now take place at the buy/sell ratio set by the NBP, whereas pre- viously they took place at the NBP's middle rate. Since April 15,1993, exchange rates for transactions between the NBP and domestic commercial banks have been set daily (one or more times a day) for five currencies (U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling) within the spread of 1 percent around the middle rates. Buying and sell- ing rates may fluctuate ±2 percent around the middle rates. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates set for the interbank market were Zl 21,290 and Zl 21,504 per US$1; Zl 12,269 and Zl 12,393 per DM 1; Zl 3,612 and Zl 3,618 per F1; Zl 14,376 and Zl 14,520 per SwF 1; and Zl 31,508 and Zl 31,824 per £ 1. The exchange rate on the parallel exchange mar- ket, in which natural persons are allowed to trans- act freely, provided that the transaction is not a commercial one, is determined by market forces and may differ from the official rate set by the NBP.4 However, exchange rate policy is geared in part to limiting the differential between the two exchange rates, and during 1993 the parallel market exchange rate remained closely in line with the official rate. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates in the parallel market were Zl 21,183 and Zl 21,432, respectively, per US$1. Since January 1, 1991, almost all trade with the former member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) has been conducted at world market prices and settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of trade, both under pre-existing contracts and to settle ruble balances outstanding at the end of 1990, continued to be transacted in transferable rubles during 1991-93. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Exchange Control Law rests with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the president of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, or for specified groups. The procedures for issuing indi- vidual permits are established by the president of the NBP in cooperation with the Minister of Finance. The authority to enforce foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who 4 Foreign exchange bureaus (kantory) must obtain licenses to operate in the parallel exchange market. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 399 exercises related functions mainly through the pres- ident of the NBP. However, decisions concerning individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- istry of Finance, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs offices, the border guard, and post offices. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments related to foreign debt. Prescription of Currency Outstanding balances under the (inoperative) bilateral payments agreements with Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Lebanon, and Turkey are being settled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Bal- ances outstanding under the arrangements of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. Settlements with all other currencies may be made in any con- vertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Residents, both natural and juridical persons, may hold foreign exchange in the form of currency and securities. Residents who are natural persons may maintain currency accounts "A," and these accounts may be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and/or deposited without declaring the sources of funds. Account holders may use balances freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by them or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. Balances in these accounts cannot be used to effect settlements between individuals but can be sold in foreign exchange bureau markets. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Accounts main- tained in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars in demand deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5- 4 percent. Accounts maintained in these currencies in one-, two-, and three-year term deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. Funds in "A" accounts cannot be used for business activity. When leaving the country permanently, individuals are allowed under the general foreign exchange permit to transfer all funds from this account. Foreign Exchange Accounts for Foreign Settlements (ROD) are held by juridical persons. Before January 1, 1990, ROD accounts could be credited with foreign exchange retained against exports in convertible cur- rencies. Since January 1, 1990, although all foreign exchange receipts from exports, in principle, must be surrendered, juridical persons have been allowed to retain foreign exchange accumulated in ROD accounts before that date. Resident individuals and enterprises who dem- onstrate proof of need may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the permission of the NBP. Under the general foreign exchange permit, such an account may also be held by enterprises earning foreign exchange from performing specific con- tracts. Balances in these accounts may not exceed $100,000. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons are free to maintain both convertible currency and zloty accounts. Nonresidents may maintain convertible currency accounts ("C" accounts) at all foreign exchange banks. These accounts may be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other "C" accounts, and with convertible cur- rency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency at the same rates as funds on the "A" accounts. Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts, but depositors must declare the source of the zlotys; this declaration require- ment is aimed at ensuring that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with foreign exchange converted into zlotys at the offi- cial exchange rate. Permits for conversion back into foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings in savings accounts, on which interest is paid. Balances in zloty accounts may be transferred to nonresidents or residents with foreign exchange permits, except for gift pay- ments to residents. Permits for transfers to nonresi- dents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 Imports and Exports POLAND Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment, temporary imports of capital goods, transport equipment for leasing, and inputs subject to a quota system. Licenses are required for imports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements. The importation of certain mineral oils, tobacco prod- ucts, and alcoholic beverages is subject to a quota. Export quotas cover only items subject to import restrictions by other countries. Export licenses are required for (1) goods subject to export quotas; (2) exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral set- tlements; (3) temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing; and (4) certain raw materials (e.g., coal and scraps), dairy prod- ucts, certain feed grains, and animal feeds to help maintain balance in the domestic market. Nonresi- dents in Poland (persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corporate entities operating in Poland) are required, temporarily, to apply for export permits. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS) and the combined nomenclature of the EC of 1991, with six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled; 5 percent on raw materials; 10-15 percent on semi- manufactured goods, machinery, and equipment; 20 percent on industrial consumer goods; 25-35 per- cent on agricultural products and textiles; and 45 percent on alcohol, tobacco products, and luxury articles. The average rate is 18.4 percent (13 percent on a trade- weighted basis). For imports originating in countries that do not enjoy most-favored-nation (MFN) status, the rates of duty are twice as high, unless the MFN rate is zero, in which case a 25 per- cent rate is imposed. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropical products from Chapters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from Chapters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland duty-free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per cap- ita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced to 30 percent of the MFN rate. Some special regula- tions pertain to border trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. Imports are subject to a surcharge of Zl 50,000 and an additional turnover tax of 6 percent; alco- holic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and auto- mobiles are exempt from the turnover tax. Exports other than coal are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on imports for export produc- tion are refunded. Exporters must declare all foreign currency receipts from exports, repatriate them within two months of receipt, and surrender them to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days of receiving notice that foreign exchange has been deposited in their accounts in Poland. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from merchandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transac- tions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such pay- ments is made available automatically once the transaction is authorized. Resident travelers may take out of Poland the equivalent of $2,000 in convertible currencies with- out official permission. Documentary proof of ori- gin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. However, holders of "A" accounts may take out of the country the balance of their accounts without limit. For official and business travel, separate allow- ances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out of Poland up to the equivalent of $10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the enterprises that employ them for travel expenses or purchases of goods and services associated with their business activity. Polish nationals departing Poland are permitted to take abroad up to $2,000 or the equivalent in con- vertible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks that they purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations to foreign nationals resulting from (1) the purchase of mov- able assets and proprietary interests, and (2) trans- portation and insurance services. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries may reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent they brought into Poland, provided that the amount is not more than that originally converted into zlo- tys less the required conversion amounts. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of return- ing to Poland. Residents may, without approval, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 401 bring into or take out of the country domestic bank notes and coins in an amount not exceeding Zl 5 million a person. Foreign visitors must declare for- eign exchange they bring into the country in order to take out the unspent amount and are not permit- ted to bring zlotys into the country or to take them out. On condition of reciprocity, residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign exchange at the official exchange rate to nonresi- dents who are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administra- tion. Business entities may use their ROD accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employ- ees. They may also use their ROD accounts, or for- eign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks, to pay outstanding obligations chargeable to (1) procurement costs, including costs of participa- tion in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees for agent representational services; (3) costs of repairing and overhauling imported machinery and equipment; (4) costs associated with protecting intellectual property; and (5) costs related to audit- ing, consulting, and information services. Similarly, individuals may submit foreign exchange to pay for (1) participation in international organizations and international hotel networks abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equiva- lent of $20,000 a case; (3) costs of obtaining legal counsel and trial representation in a given case up to $50,000 or the equivalent; and (4) taxes, customs duties, or administrative fees payable abroad. Remittances for study abroad require an individual foreign exchange permit. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Poland, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises and through individual foreign exchange permits. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of their income. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, or the acquisition of shares in Polish companies, may be transferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 per- cent of invested capital. If the investment yields a net surplus in convertible currency in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus may be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on the public sector's external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S.A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks, and the contracting of foreign loans is subject to approval. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed with a credit of up to the equiva- lent of $1 million, with repayment terms of up to 360 days. With a permit, imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $1 million may also be financed with a credit, with repayment terms of up to three years. A new foreign investment law (Law on Compa- nies with Foreign Participation) came into effect on July 4, 1991, replacing the old Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which had governed all new foreign direct invest- ments since December 23,1988. Under the 1991 law, new businesses will need to register only with local courts, except for investments in the areas of sea- ports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, legal services, and wholesale trade in imported products, which will continue to require permits. Although the previous three-year tax holiday for new businesses was abolished, the taxation system was simplified, and imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Investors in certain priority sectors will also be eli- gible for tax concessions, as will investments exceeding ECU 2 million a year. The 10 percent ceil- ing on purchases in shares of privatization issues has been abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above-mentioned sectors. For joint ventures, as well as for invest- ments in shares of Polish companies, all limits on the transfer of profits have been lifted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obliga- tions to creditors are met. The transfer of profits or repatriation of capital from bonds requires a foreign exchange permit. The 1991 law does not stipulate a minimum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, thus eliminating the require- ment of $50,000. Nevertheless, the minimum capital requirement set forth in the Polish commercial code ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 POLAND for a limited liability company and a joint-stock company is still in effect. Foreign investment by residents, either to establish subsidiaries or affiliates or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, requires a foreign exchange permit. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign exchange permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a nonres- ident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of Interior. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to per- mission from the foreign exchange authorities. Pol- ish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo. Portugal participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mecha- nism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Portugal maintains the spot exchange rates between the Portu- guese escudo and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 15 percent above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).1 The agreement implies that the Banco de Portu- gal (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Spanish pesetas 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Portuguese Escudos Upper limit Lower limit 556.890 3,011.200 11,481.100 3,424.800 276.938 10,194.300 145.180 413.020 2,233.300 8,517.900 2,540.000 205.389 7,560.500 107.670 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, in order to ensure a proper function- ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies2 are based on information on the exchange 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 per HK$1. rate of the Portuguese escudo in terms of the deutsche mark provided by the banking system and are announced daily by the Banco de Portugal. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. On December 31,1993, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 176.81 per US$1. A tax of 0.9 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange except on interbank transactions. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency among themselves and with residents and nonresidents at free market rates of exchange. Nonbank residents may also conduct spot or forward exchange opera- tions with nonresident counterparts. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Banco de Portugal for their foreign exchange posi- tions (calculated as the sum of the positions against escudos in each foreign currency). Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 12,1988. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism. The Direcgao-Geral do Comer- cio in this ministry is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Portugal notified the IMF on July 12, 1993 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 820 (1993), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be effected in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to open and operate accounts in Portugal or abroad in either escudos or foreign currencies. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 PORTUGAL Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be freely made into Portugal. For products under European Union (EU) surveillance, import declarations, when required, are issued for statistical surveillance pur- poses and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific con- ditions or are prohibited for reasons of health, pub- lic order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. For agricultural products covered by the common agricultural policy of the EU, the EU may require an import certificate. The validity of the import declara- tion is six months for customs clearance purposes. In accordance with the Act of Accession of Portu- gal to the EU, imports of some agricultural prod- ucts are subject to temporary restrictions when originating in EU and third countries. A few indus- trial products are subject to restrictions only when they originate in third countries. A more extensive restricted list, which applies to Japan, includes manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of restrictions. Proceeds from exports are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. The exporta- tion or importation by residents or nonresidents of bank notes or coins and traveler's checks in excess of the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million must be declared to customs. Capital There are no exchange restrictions or controls on capital transactions, and no distinction is made between capital transactions with residents of EU member countries and residents of non-EU mem- ber countries. Foreign direct investments are per- mitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign direct investment operations require prior declaration to the Investmentos Comercio e Tour- ismo de Portugal (ICEP) and are considered approved if the ICEP does not reply within two months. Projects submitted by non-EU investors may be subject to review. The establishment of a financial institution in Portugal in which a majority voting right is held by natural persons who are not nationals of an EU member country or by legal persons with their main office and central management in a non-EU country is subject to previous authorization from the Minister of Finance, which may consider pru- dential requirements as well as other criteria. Simi- lar regulations apply to the establishment, in Portugal, of branches of a financial institution located in a non-EU member country. The establishment in a non-EU member country of branches of financial institutions by nonresidents is subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. The issuing of securities by nonresidents in a for- eign capital market requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. However, nonresi- dents may not issue commercial paper in Portugal. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Portugal. Residents and nonresidents may also import and export bullion, coins, and unworked gold, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 million. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 13. The central rate of the Portuguese escudo in the ERM of the EMS was devalued by 6.5 percent (together with the Spanish peseta) against the cur- rencies of the participating countries. August 2. The intervention threshold of the Portu- guese escudo in the ERM of the EMS was widened from ±6 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rate, which remained unchanged. Administration of Control June 18. Financial transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) were prohibited without prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 405 Capital May 11. Capital movements between Portugal and abroad were liberalized. This law formalized earlier liberalization (Decree-Law No. 170/93) mea- sures taken by the authorities following their deci- sion in August 1992 not to ask for an extension of the transitional period for the full implementation of the EC Directives on Capital Movements of 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate, but these margins were exceeded between September 1990 and February 1991, and again in December 1991. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates-for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6415 and QR 3.6385, respec- tively, per US$1. The exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the Mone- tary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commer- cial banks for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may pur- chase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 4,1973. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Qatar is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange con- trol legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Financial transactions with the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. All imports from Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its deriv- atives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licens- ing for reasons of health or public policy. Other- wise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Imports of general goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the mini- mum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC). The customs tariff on steel is 20 percent; on tobacco 104 percent; and on alcoholic beverages 100 percent. Imports of goods from other member countries of the GCC are not subject to a customs tariff. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Iraq, Israel, and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, although payments may not be made to or received from Iraq, Israel, and South Africa. Nonciti- zens may engage in simple crafts as well as in com- merce, industry, agriculture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, provided that the latter's share is not less than 51 percent. Noncitizens may also estab- lish companies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to establish such companies or if there is a need for the experi- ence and technology they provide. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 407 Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- ject to customs duty. Transactions involving Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the refer- ence exchange rate) is determined by daily auctions organized by the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The NBR and authorized commercial banks partici- pate in the auction. Legal persons other than autho- rized banks purchase and sell foreign exchange at auctions through authorized banks when amounts exceed $2,000; amounts of less than $2,000 are transacted directly between authorized banks and their clients at the exchange rate established in the latest auction session. Legal persons are also allowed to transact with each other, provided that foreign exchange transactions are related to foreign trade operations and that the exchange rate estab- lished in the latest auction session is applied.1 On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate was lei 1,276 per US$1. The NBR quotes rates for 22 other curren- cies,2 based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the European currency unit. Foreign exchange bureaus that conduct transactions only in foreign currency bank notes and traveler's checks and only with natural persons are currently in operation. These bureaus are allowed to set their exchange rates freely with a maximum spread of 5 percent between buying and selling rates, and they may sell foreign exchange to resident natural persons for the purpose of travel abroad up to the annual limit of $500.3 The transferable ruble, the currency used for commercial transactions with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assis- tance (CMEA), has been abolished but continues to be used as a unit of account for the purpose of liqui- dating outstanding balances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. 1 Foreign exchange transactions between nonbank legal per- sons outside the auction sessions have been prohibited since Jan- uary 1,1994. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Turkish liras. 3 The amount was changed to $500, effective January 1,1994. Under the provision of the law setting up the NBR as the country's central bank, which came into force on May 3,1991, the NBR issues rules and reg- ulations related to control of foreign exchange transactions. The NBR authorizes all capital trans- fers including those connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad on the basis of visas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Domestic com- mercial banks are authorized by the NBR to con- duct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions and are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to bor- row directly abroad with NBR authorization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made only in currency and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.4 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and natural persons may main- tain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized by the NBR to operate in Roma- nia. There are three kinds of accounts. "A" accounts are maintained in convertible currencies, or in lei obtained from the sale of convertible currencies, precious metals, coins, or ingots (other than silver). "B" accounts are maintained in nonconvertible cur- rencies quoted by the NBR or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies for liquidation purposes only. Transactions in any individual "B" account may be effected in only one such cur- rency. "C" accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. 4At the end of 1993, Romania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, Ghana, Greece, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the former CMEA countries. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 409 "A" accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other "A," "B," or "C" account. "B" accounts may be debited for all pay- ments abroad in the currencies held in the account or from which the funds are derived and for payments within Romania. "C" accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permit- ted for the different accounts do not require any fur- ther authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Loan Bank. Authorized Romanian commercial banks may accept time deposits in convertible currencies from nonresi- dent customers paying interest at prevailing interna- tional market rates. Juridical persons with state-owned or privately owned capital are permitted to open and maintain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania by the NBR. In special cases, juridical persons may be allowed to open and maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad with the prior authorization of the NBR. Romanian natural persons and foreigners perma- nently domiciled in Romania may hold and utilize foreign means of payment in foreign exchange accounts opened with the authorization of the NBR in financial and banking institutions abroad. Natu- ral persons may also hold foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins or in accounts opened with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania and, with the NBR's authorization, may freely use such foreign exchange to effect interna- tional current payments and capital payments. The deposits may also be exchanged for lei through the foreign exchange bureaus authorized to operate in Romania. Imports and Exports Import and export transactions were liberalized on May 1, 1992, and in general are not subject to licensing, except for a few consumer goods that are subject to quantitative restrictions, goods covered by international arrangements signed by Romania, and certain controlled strategic goods. Measures to curb imports may be taken by both the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the Ministry of Finance to protect the balance of payments, or for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security in accordance with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Import tariff rates are ad valorem, and range from 0 percent to 60 percent, with a simple average rate estimated to be about 13 percent. A 30 percent import surcharge is imposed on certain items, including alcohol, cars, color televisions, and video recorders. Exports of some goods (including wheat, butter, a few hydrocarbon products, certain minerals, blood products, logs and wood products, and scrap met- als) have been suspended. Certain goods (including certain mineral oils, chemical fertilizers, and copper alloys) are subject to export quotas. Resident juridical persons must maintain foreign exchange proceeds in accounts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania but are free to use balances in these accounts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All juridical economic agents may effect foreign exchange transfers for payments for invisible (or any international current account) transactions through authorized commercial banks. Commercial banks must verify, based on supporting documents, that the requested transfer is for bona fide current account purposes. Natural persons residing in Romania may take out of the country foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins up to a maximum amount equivalent to $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions (such as expenses for group or individ- ual travel, medical treatments or purchases of med- icines, participation in conferences, education, purchases of consumer goods for personal use, and payments for services); no documentation is required for amounts of $1,000 or less. Natural persons must make all transfers exceed- ing $5,000 through banks. Transfers to banks abroad for current operations may also be made from the accounts of natural persons domiciled permanently in Romania and from the accounts of other Roma- nian juridical persons, except in special cases (as stipulated by law) requiring prior authorization from the NBR; such authorization is granted on a case-by-case basis. Banks may not limit the volume of bona fide current operations. The maximum amount of foreign currency bank notes and coins that natural persons may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $50,000 a person a trip. Natural persons who are Romanian or foreign citi- zens staying in the country temporarily and who enter Romania in possession of more than the equivalent of $1,000 in foreign currency bank notes are required to declare the excess amount. Amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the coun- try. The maximum amount of domestic bank notes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 ROMANIA lei 5,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than lei 1,000. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange and all capital transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the NBR. Capital transfers connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by for- eign natural persons, and pension payments abroad are authorized by the NBR on the basis of permits issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Under the investment law that came into effect on May 3,1991, there are no limits on foreign equity participation in a commercial firm set up in Roma- nia, and foreign investments maybe made in all sec- tors of the economy, except where the environment or Romania's national security and defense inter- ests must be protected. Foreign investors can participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign contrac- tual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. In addition, foreign investors can transfer abroad (1) the entire amount of their share of profits earned in convertible currencies; (2) with the authorization of the fiscal authorities and the NBR, part of their share of annual profits earned in lei and converted into convertible currency, equiva- lent up to 15 percent of their participation in the capital of the firm; (3) the total or partial proceeds in convertible currencies from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of investments; and (4) the proceeds in lei from the liquidation of investments in freely convertible currencies, in three annual installments. Imported machinery, equipment, installations, means of transport, and any other goods in kind constituted as participation of the foreign investor are exempt from custom duties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advantages. Gold use it, and to engage in gold transactions. Natural persons may, without restriction, own gold jewelry and artistic and cultural objects for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 15. The maximum amount of foreign exchange a resident natural person can purchase from foreign exchange bureaus was increased to the equivalent of lei 200,000 a year from lei 100,000 a year. (This amount was increased to lei 500,000 on August 10.) September 20. Foreign exchange bureaus were allowed to set their exchange rates freely with a maximum spread of 5 percent between buying and selling rates. Imports and Exports April 30. The temporary exemptions from and reductions of customs duties were abolished. May 1. An import surcharge of 30 percent was introduced on certain items, including alcohol, cars, color televisions, and video recorders. August 28. Temporary exemptions from and reductions of custom duties were introduced for 200 tariff lines. October 20. The import surcharge of 30 percent (introduced in May 1) was abolished. December 31. The temporary exemptions from and reductions of custom duties (introduced on August 28) were abolished. Capital July 9. Foreign investors were allowed to transfer abroad, with the authorization of fiscal authorities, the entire amount of their share of annual profits. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangements The NBR has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. It, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to January 1. Foreign exchange transactions between nonbank legal persons outside the auction sessions were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Russian Federation is the Ruble. An official exchange rate is quoted by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) based upon market exchange rates that are determined in daily auc- tions held at the Moscow Interbank Foreign Cur- rency Exchange (MICEX).1 Auction markets are also organized in other major cities, including St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Vladivostok, Rostov, and Novosibirsk. There is a growing interbank exchange market outside of the currency exchanges. The exchange rate of the ruble at the close of the MICEX session on December 31, 1993 was Rub 1,247 per US$1. Currencies traded on the MICEX include deutsche mark, French francs, pounds ster- ling, Belarus rubles, Kazakh tenge, and Ukrainian karbovanets. Currencies traded on other exchanges also include Japanese yen and Finnish markkaa. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency of the CBR in the MICEX and on other exchanges where the CBR operates. The CBR participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the interbank market out- side the auctions. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the CBR. The CBR exchange rate is announced twice a week and is equal to the closing rate at the Tuesday and Thurs- day MICEX auctions. It becomes effective on the fol- lowing day and remains in effect until the Friday and Wednesday auctions, respectively. Exchange rates announced by the CBR are used for accounting l rThe MICEX is a joint stock company of resident foreign exchange banks and nonbank licensed organizations. The Cen- tral Bank of Russia is a shareholder and founder of the MICEX. The CBR issues three kinds of foreign exchange license: internal licenses, which allow a bank to deal in foreign exchange inside the Russian Federation, including establishing foreign exchange bureaus, and to open correspondent accounts in the banks of the former U.S.S.R. abroad (e.g., Moscow Narodony); limited licenses, which allow banks to open up to six correspondent accounts in banks of their choice, in addition to correspondent accounts in former Soviet banks abroad and to deal in up to six currencies; and general licenses, which allow banks to carry out the full range of foreign exchange operations, including portfolio transactions. The MICEX receives a commission in U.S. dollars of 0.1 percent on net purchases of U.S. dollars and a commission in rubles of 0.1 percent on net purchases of rubles. The other cur- rency exchanges of the Russian Federation are organized in a similar manner as the MICEX; the CBR is not necessarily a share- holder of these exchanges but may operate on them. and taxation purposes, operations with the Ministry of Finance, and the calculation of budgetary subsi- dies on centralized imports. The CBR quotes exchange rates of the ruble for the ECU and 26 con- vertible currencies on the basis of the MICEX ruble-U.S. dollar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market on the day preceding auctions. The CBR provides reference exchange rates for the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. against the ruble, based on market exchange rates in the Russian Federation (auction rates of currency exchanges) or local markets; these reference rates are used for taxation and accounting purposes, and authorized commercial banks are free to quote the rates for these currencies in their transactions. The CBR also calculates the (former) Gosbank exchange rate of the ruble (the so-called official exchange rate; about Rub 0.6 per US$1) as a unit of account for the valuation of external claims of the former U.S.S.R. and related transactions.2 An interbank, mainly noncash, market operates outside the auctions among the major authorized banks, mainly in a given region; the regional seg- mentation stems from the length of settlement of the ruble leg of foreign exchange transactions between banks affiliated with different payment centers; this feature hampers effective arbitrage between regional markets and leads the CBR to operate in the regional exchanges in order to apply the same exchange rate throughout the country. Authorized banks may trade on behalf of their cus- tomers and on their own accounts in these markets, subject to open foreign exchange limits defined by the CBR.3 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no official arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. A forward market has developed in Mos- cow and is regulated as part of the CBR exposure limits. 2 The official rate was defined by the Soviet Gosbank in rela- tion to a currency basket of six convertible currencies, and the value of that unit of account therefore fluctuates with the exchange rates of those currencies. 3End-of-day exposures must not exceed $100,000 for each Rub 1 billion of capital up to Rub 10 billion. Exposures of banks with a capital exceeding Rub 10 billion must obtain individual limits from the CBR. 4A local turnover tax of 0.1 percent has been imposed by the city of Moscow since March 1,1994. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Administration of Control The responsibility for regulating foreign trade and exchange transactions is shared by the CBR, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations, the Federal Service of the Russian Federation for Foreign Exchange and Export Con- trol, the State Tax Service, and the State Customs Committee. The CBR has the prime responsibilities for foreign exchange regulations, for administering exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, including accounting procedures for the revalua- tion of foreign currency items of commercial banks, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange posi- tions. It has delegated to the authorized banks the responsibility for enforcing capital controls and repatriation and surrender requirements; the CBR, and the State Tax Service monitor the banks' enforcement. The Ministries of Finance and Foreign Economic Relations supervise compliance with reg- ulations concerning export quotas, licensing, and transactions in precious metals and unprocessed precious stones. The State Tax Service supervises the payment of taxes on income in foreign curren- cies, and the State Customs Committee supervises the payment of export and import taxes. The Law of the Russian Federation on Currency Regulations and Currency Controls stipulates that Parliament establishes the rules for the manage- ment of the Government's foreign exchange reserves. The authority for changing the rules for the mandatory sale of foreign exchange from export earnings rests with the President of the Russian Federation. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Russian Federation notified the IMF on April 1, 1993 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Arrears are maintained with respect to external debt-service payments. Prescription of Currency The Russian Federation's payment and settle- ment arrangements with other countries follow the principle that trade should be valued at world prices and settled in freely convertible currencies and rubles unless otherwise stated in international agreements in which the Russian Federation partic- ipates. Existing official payment arrangements fall into three categories: (1) payment arrangements related to trade; (2) payment arrangements related to intergovernmental credits; and (3) payment arrangements related to foreign investment. Pay- ment arrangements in credit and investment agree- ments may influence current account transactions in that payments may be effected in kind and at nonmarket exchange rates. At present, the Russian Federation maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Mongo- lia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, and Slovenia. Agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Cuba, Egypt, India, and the Syrian Arab Republic specify clearing currencies for the settlement of merchandise trade according to indicative com- modity lists and for the payment of technical assis- tance from the Russian Federation. Payments for technical assistance to Albania, Cambodia, China, India, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam are effected in convertible currency or by credit repayable in kind. Receipts in convert- ible currency from Albania and Mongolia are deposited in special accounts for payment for imports from the Russian Federation only. When specific agreements do not exist or trade takes place outside the framework of the agreements, settle- ments are effected in convertible currency. In partic- ular, centralized exports by the Government (mostly fuel and other energy products) to the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) member countries must be settled in con- vertible currencies, while the settlement of other exports is left to the contracting parties. Settlements among the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made principally through correspon- dent accounts of authorized banks in rubles and other convertible currencies as well as in the national currencies of these countries. Payments to the Russian Federation are also effected through the central banks of the states of the former U.S.S.R. through a system of bilateral correspondent accounts; balances in these accounts may not be set- tled multilaterally. At the end of 1993, the CBR held a sizable surplus balance denominated in rubles with the central banks of these countries.5 5 Most of this balance was renegotiated on market terms fol- lowing the demonetization of the pre-1993 rubles and after the CBR ceased to extend new credit to these central banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 413 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Natural and juridical persons may open foreign currency accounts at authorized resident banks. Resident natural persons may maintain bank accounts abroad only during their stay abroad; oth- erwise, they must obtain permission from the CBR. Resident juridical persons may not maintain accounts abroad, including branches of Russian banks, without special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses; Since July 16, 1993, authorized Russian banks have been allowed to open correspondent accounts in banks of the states of the former U.S.S.R. without restriction, provided that they comply with the regulation on exposure limits. Nonresidents may hold four types of accounts: "T" accounts, which are used for the servicing of export-import operations by their representative offices in the Russian Federation; correspondence ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regulations as "T" accounts; "I" accounts, which can be used for investment activities (includ- ing privatization operations); and nonresident accounts for natural persons. "I" accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities. Non- residents may sell or buy foreign exchange with funds in these latter accounts. Imports and Exports Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines and pesti- cides, and industrial waste. A customs duty rang- ing from 5 percent to 15 percent is levied on most goods; duties on some goods range up to 150 per- cent. The following products are exempt from cus- toms duties: foodstuffs; medicines; inputs for production of medicine; medical supplies and equipment; printed materials; children's articles; accompanied baggage, except motor vehicles, up to US$5,000;6 equipment for the oil and gas industries; and ships and boats. Imports from the "least devel- oped" countries are also exempt, and the customs duties on imports from other developing countries are reduced by one half. Customs duties are pay- able in rubles at the exchange rates of the CBR. Foreign exchange for imports may be obtained without limit. 6 Reduced to $2,000 on January 1,1994. Exports are undertaken under a regime of export quotas and export licensing. In addition, exports of materials considered strategically important are effected through approved intermediaries (so-called special exporters, consisting mainly of former state foreign trade organizations and industry associa- tions). A limited number of goods, mainly deter- mined by the Ministry of Environment, may be exported only under a licensing regime. The export regimes apply to exports to all countries. Quantitative restrictions on exports of products considered essential and requiring adequate domes- tic supplies are enforced through a quota system. Quotas apply to exports of energy products and other materials, but exemptions are granted to cer- tain products in these categories and to products exported from certain regions. The list of quotas in effect on January 1, 1994, included oil, oil products, gas, certain nonferrous metals, cellulose, durum wheat, soya and sunflower seeds, timber and timber products, and fish and fish products. There are four types of export quotas: Type I quotas for the federal Government, Type II quotas for regional governments, Type III quotas for spe- cific producers and organizations, and Type IV quo- tas7 subject to auctioning. Type I quotas may not be sold unless they are underutilized. Type II and Type III quotas are issued against export certificates that are valid for three months and may be sold. Entities in regions that produce oil and gas are allocated regional quotas amounting to 10 percent of the overall quotas for oil, gas, and their products. Only approved intermediaries are authorized to export strategic goods, including those under quota.8 The list of intermediaries is revised periodically by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER). Export licenses are issued in accordance with application procedures established by the MFER and are required for all exports covered by the quota regime and for a limited number of other products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, cer- tain food products, wildlife, medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medicines, and minerals). Enterprises may be issued general export licenses, which allow them to export, during one calendar year, any product included in a commod- ity subgroup as defined in the Commodity Nomen- 7 In 1993, Type IV quotas covered mixtures of oil products, waste paper, textiles for export to the EU, scrap ferrous metals, and medicinal raw materials of plant or animal origin. 8 Presidential Decree No. 628 of June 14,1992. Each intermedi- ary is allowed a specific list of exports. Intermediaries are allowed to charge a commission of between 0.5 percent and 2 percent, depending on the product. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 RUSSIAN FEDERATION clature for Foreign Economic Activity (TNVES), or a one-time license may be issued to them, under which the shipment of products under specific export contracts may take place within one year. Joint ventures with foreign capital equity owner- ship of more than 30 percent are allowed to export their own production without a license. Export duties are levied on about 100 product groups. Specific duties are denominated in ECUs and range from ECU 1 to ECU 80,000 a ton. Ad valorem duties range up to 30 percent (15 per- cent and 20 percent for foods). The export duties are imposed on exports to all states of the former U.S.S.R, except for goods delivered to meet state needs in accordance with intergovernmental agree- ments and that were sold by the state corporations (Roskontract and Rosagrokhim). Duties on goods exported to the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be paid in rubles, and on goods exported to other countries, in any of the currencies quoted by the CBR, using CBR exchange rates prevailing on the day the payment for the goods is received. A num- ber of discretionary exemptions are granted on a case-by-case basis.9 Export duties are payable when the goods cross the border, but payments may be postponed for up to 60 days if a bank guarantee for the subsequent payment is provided. Fifty percent of export earnings must be surrendered to the auc- tion exchange market through authorized banks. There are exceptions for exporters of oil and gas. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, and residents may purchase foreign exchange for all bona fide invisible transactions from authorized banks with proper documentation. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign bank notes a person may take out of the country, provided that a certificate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. The use of inter- nationally accepted credit cards issued by domestic banks to customers who have foreign currency accounts is not restricted. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out a maximum of Rub 500,000 in bank notes and coins, and nonresidents, up to the amount of rubles purchased with foreign exchange. The transfer of income from investments by non- residents is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely 9 Oil- and gas-producing enterprises are exempt from export duties for the decentralized portion of their exports. This exemp- tion does not apply to enterprises with foreign investments reg- istered after January 1,1992, and providing goods for centralized exports. convert their income into foreign exchange. Pro- ceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services/are subject to the surrender requirement. Authorized banks holding general foreign exchange licenses are permitted to import and export foreign currency bank notes, treasury notes, coins in circulation, and securities without restric- tion, provided that they observe customs regula- tions. Other authorized banks may carry out the same type of operations through banks with gen- eral licenses. Capital Capital transfers of residents, with the exception of repayments of foreign loans, must be authorized by the CBR. External borrowing by juridical persons is subject to control. Both resident and nonresident juridical persons have the right to import or transfer foreign exchange to the country without restriction, pro- vided that they observe the regulations. Foreign borrowing by resident juridical persons is subject to a special license and authorization by the CBR, and when a state guarantee is involved, also by the Min- istry of Finance. Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require a special license. Nonresident juridical persons may transfer abroad foreign currency assets up to the amount imported, provided that foreign exchange is available. Nonresidents may buy or sell foreign currency for investment purposes in exchange for rubles through "I" accounts without limitation. Investment in Russian enterprises by nonresidents through joint ventures or through outright owner- ship is not restricted. In principle, foreign invest- ment in land, real estate, and most sectors considered to be of national economic importance is permitted. Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economy, and investments exceeding Rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rights and privi- leges with regard to property ownership and eco- nomic activities as those accorded to residents.10 Foreign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases in accor- 10A presidential decree of September 27,1993, introduced sev- eral provisions to protect foreign investment, including a "grandfather7' clause that protects foreign investments for a three-year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect their activities and a provision that any restrictions on activities of foreign investors can be introduced only by laws of the Russian Federation or by presidential decree. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 415 dance with legislation, and in such cases the inves- tor would be entitled to compensation. Gold Domestic trade in gold is not permitted, except that monetary gold intended to be part of the coun- try's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the Government. Exports of gold and swaps require authorization by the Government and can be effected only through authorized banks. The Ministry of Finance has issued gold-backed certifi- cates, which can also be bought by nonresidents. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 8. The CBR began to auction Ukranian kar- bovanets at the MICEX. May 28. The CBR introduced regulations on open foreign exchange positions of authorized banks. End-of-day exposures must not exceed $100,000 for each Rub 1 billion in capital up to Rub 10 billion. Exposures of banks with a capital exceeding Rub 10 billion must obtain individual limits from the CBR. June 1. With the authorization of the CBR, the frequency of the dollar-ruble auctions of the MICEX was increased from two to five days a week. Auc- tions would also be held at least once a week in St. Petersburg, Rostov, Yekaterinburg, and Novosibirsk in U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and Finnish markkaa. The CBR would continue to quote its own reference rate twice a week. July 24. The CBR began to withdraw from circula- tion pre-1993 rubles in all the states of the former U.S.S.R. August 11. The CBR began to quote reference rates of the pre-1993 ruble against the Russian ruble for the countries using it as a legal payment instrument in their territories. The reference rates quoted by the CBR for the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. against the Russian ruble would be based on market rates and would be used for taxation and accounting purposes. However, there would be no obligation to transact at these rates, and authorized commercial banks may determine the rates of these currencies freely for their transactions. October 1. The CBR issued instructions prohibiting the use of foreign currency in domestic retail transac- tions, effective January 1,1994; transactions con- ducted in duty-free areas; retail sales using credit cards, debit cards, and bank transfers; and nonretail operations in the territory of the Russian Federation that were previously authorized (payments of imports to intermediaries) were not affected. December 10. The MICEX started to trade the Belarussian rubel and the Kazakh tenge. December 20. The MICEX began to trade French francs, Irish pounds, and pounds sterling. Administration of Control January 5. Banks with internal foreign exchange licenses (which authorize them to establish corre- spondent relationships with six foreign banks of their choice) were also permitted to establish corre- spondent relations with the banks of the states of the former U.S.S.R. abroad. January 20. The CBR published a list of goods and services that may be sold for foreign currency in the territory of the Russian Federation. The list com- prised international travel services and payments for imported goods by wholesale intermediaries. Transactions settled in foreign currency would require a permit issued by the CBR. Holders of sim- ilar permits that were previously issued by Gos- bank or the CBR were required to reapply to the CBR for a permit by July 1. April 19. Authorized banks holding general licenses were permitted to import and export for- eign currency bank notes, treasury notes, coins in circulation, and securities without restrictions, pro- vided that they observe customs regulations. April 28. A government decision established that, in the absence of bilateral/multilateral agreements on the terms of energy product pricing and deliver- ies to the states of the former U.S.S.R., deliveries of natural gas, coal and coal products, and oil and oil products to these countries must be performed by enterprises and organizations on the basis of world market prices converted into rubles or national cur- rencies at the rate quoted by the CBR on the 15th of the month preceding the month of delivery. Exports of energy products to the Baltic States must be based on world market prices. July 16. Authorized banks were allowed to estab- lish correspondent relations with any bank in the states of the former U.S.S.R.; operations of these accounts must comply with the regulation on open foreign exchange positions; export transactions set- tled through these accounts in national currencies of these states would be exempt from the surrender requirement. Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 16. The CBR issued regulations on proce- dures for nonresidents to open and maintain accounts in the currency of the Russian Federation with authorized banks. Nonresidents may hold four types of accounts: "T" accounts, which may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 416 RUSSIAN FEDERATION used for the servicing of export-import operations and by their representative offices in Russia; corre- spondent accounts of banks; "I" accounts, which may be used for a wide range of investment activi- ties (including privatization operations); and accounts of nonresident physical persons. Nonresi- dents were allowed to sell foreign exchange from these accounts, with immediate effect and to buy foreign exchange from the "I" accounts, effective September 1,1994. These four types of accounts replaced the system of "L," "N," "R," and "S" accounts. Balances in "L" and "S" accounts were transferred into "I" accounts. Balances in "N" and "R" accounts converted into "T" accounts and cor- respondent accounts of banks. Imports and Exports January 1. A uniform procedure would apply to licensing and determining export quotas for the states of the former U.S.S.R. and other countries. January 1. New export tariff rates for countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. were introduced. These new rates implied a reduction in the export tariff to about 20 percent for most prod- ucts representing about 70 percent of total exports. Rates for products exported under barter arrange- ments and for products not subject to the surrender requirement would be 50 percent higher. January 1. The quota for exports of the states of the former U.S.S.R. was set at 112.5 billion cubic meters, of which the state would account for 55 per- cent in the form of centralized exports to meet its own needs. Foreign exchange proceeds would be placed in the foreign exchange account of the Gov- ernment. GASPROM would be exempt from export duties on noncentralized exports and from import duties on equipment and materials purchased abroad and financed from the export proceeds. January 1. Temporary procedures for the surren- der requirement were extended for an unlimited period. February 1. A value-added tax and excise duties were introduced on all imports, except those origi- nating in the states of the former U.S.S.R. and pre- cious metals. February 1. Export tariffs were extended to all exports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. (they were already applied to the Baltic states), except for goods delivered to meet state needs in accordance with intergovernmental agreements and that were sold by the state corporations (Roskontract and Rosagrokhim). In addition, prior to the entry into force of the intergovernmental agreements on free trade and of other agreements providing for the nonapplication of import duties, imports from the following states would be exempt from import duties: Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Import duties were introduced at twice the normal rates on goods originating in the three Baltic countries, Georgia, Moldova, and Tajikistan. March 1. Oil- and gas-extracting enterprises and associations would be given export quotas during 1993-95 that would be sufficient to pay for the repair of oil wells, including equipment, and they would be exempt from export tariffs on exports under quota and from import duties on equipment. March 4. Regulations establishing a tender system for the right to export goods to meet state needs (the so-called centralized exports) were introduced. March 14. To compensate for the reduction of for- eign exchange earnings of oil- and gas-producing enterprises, the decentralized portion of their exports would be exempt from export duties retro- active to January 1993; this exemption would not be granted to enterprises with foreign investments registered after January 1,1992, and providing goods for centralized exports. March 15. Certain goods (in particular, wood, paper, and household products) were eliminated from the list of strategic exports (i.e., subjected to quotas), while others (notably fish and fish prod- ucts) were added. March 19. Oil- and gas-producing, geological prospecting, and oil-refining enterprises providing supplies for exports in rubles for centralized exports were exempted from the obligation to sell 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings from their quotas, including extra quotas to supply pro- duction and technological needs and develop new fields. The procedure would be effective through- out 1993 pending the cancellation of centralized exports of these goods. March 27. Existing privileges granted in foreign economic activity, including exemptions for the payments or reduction of import and export duties, were modified. Privileges would be granted only with the approval of the Foreign Exchange Com- mission and be given mainly in the form of deferral from payments for imports of investment products with adequate guarantees from an authorized bank that such payment would subsequently be made. Payments would have to take place at the market exchange rate. April 1. A new import tariff was introduced that would apply to goods regardless of the date of con- tract. For a few luxury items, rates of 25 percent to 150 percent would apply. Food products, medi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 417 cines, a few raw materials, ships, and boats would be exempt from tariffs. May 21. A new customs tariff law was promul- gated. June 29. Capital equipment imported by oil and gas enterprises were exempted from the customs duties. July 1. Export earnings of joint ventures were sub- jected to the 50 percent surrender requirement. July 1. The requirement that exporters subject to the 50 percent surrender requirement must sell 30 percent of export proceeds to the CBR was abol- ished, and the entire amount of the surrendered for- eign exchange should be sold to the auction exchange market through authorized banks. July 20. Imports to meet state needs were exempted from customs duties. September 21. Excise taxes on imported alcoholic beverages were increased to the range of 80- 85 percent. October 12. A new system of controlling repatria- tion of export proceeds that is based on domicilia- tion in authorized Russian banks was introduced, with effect from January 1,1994, for strategic exports; with effect from March 1, 1994, domicilia- tion would be required for all exports. October 15. Certain Russian oil and gas enterprises were exempted from the surrender requirement, pro- vided that export earnings exempted from surrender would be used to repay a loan that was obtained by Lukoil from Mitsui Bank (of Japan). November 1. A new list of dutiable exports with specific or ad valorem tariffs (denominated in ECUs) was published. November 4. Strategic exports (i.e., exports subject to quotas) were limited to gas, oil, oil products, cer- tain nonferrous metals, cellulose, durum wheat, soya and sunflower seeds, fish, Crustacea, and cav- iar. Timber ceased to be classified as strategic. November 11. Restrictions on grain exports were lifted. November 24. Excise duties on certain imported goods were revised. December 16. Timber and timber products were added again to the list of exports subject to licenses and quotas. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles April 3. Residents and nonresidents traveling to areas where the ruble is sole legal tender were pro- hibited from taking out more than Rub 500,000; the exportation of bank notes to areas where the ruble is not legal tender would be limited to Rub 100,000 (State Customs Committee No. T-14506). The high- est denomination note allowed to be exported would be the Rub 1,000 note. December 13. The limit on the exportation of ruble bank notes was raised to Rub 500,000 for all indi- viduals, and the restriction on the denomination of notes was eliminated. Capital April 28. Subject to approval by the CBR, autho- rized Russian banks^were permitted to invest in for- eign banks, provided that such investment would result in majority ownership. July 2. The system of technical credits involving debt settlement among the states of the former U.S.S.R. was discontinued. The settlement of out- standing debts would be negotiated between the gov- ernments, including valuation based on the U.S. dollar and market interest rates. Tax agreements were concluded with all the states of the former U.S.S.R. September 25. Nonresidents were allowed to pur- chase gold-backed certificates of deposit issued by the Ministry of Finance. September 27. A decree on foreign direct invest- ment with the following main provisions came into effect: (1) existing and new foreign investments would be protected for a period of up to three years from regulatory acts that may adversely affect their activities; (2) any restrictions on the activities of for- eign investors can be introduced only by laws of the Russian Federation or by presidential decree; (3) the Government will prepare amendments to the July 1991 law on foreign investment to include national treatment of foreign and Russian investors in the privatization of state and municipal enterprises, debt-equity conversions, and specification of a list of sectors in which foreign investment is prohib- ited; and (4) amendments to laws on free economic zones, concessions, and tax legislation would be introduced with a view to improving incentives for foreign investment in priority areas. November 18. A presidential decree governing the activity of foreign banks and banks with foreign participation was issued. The decree prohibited for- eign banks and banks with foreign participation from servicing Russian clients until January 1,1996. All foreign banks, their subsidiaries, and banking joint ventures with more than 50 percent foreign ownership would be restricted to serving nonresi- dent clients unless they had been serving residents prior to November 15. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 201.39 per SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the mid- point between buying and selling exchange rates set by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The exchange rates for foreign currencies in the SDR basket are based on the U.S. dollar value of these currencies, as published one business day earlier on the London market. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on their value against the Belgian franc, as published one business day earlier by the National Bank of Bel- gium. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent below and 1 percent above the midpoint, respectively (±2 percent for bank notes). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes. Purchases of traveler's checks are subject to a commission of RF 550 for amounts below RF 10,000, RF 800 for amounts from RF 10,000 to RF 50,000, and RF 700 plus 2 per mill for amounts above RF 50,000. Other outward and inward trans- fers are subject to a commission of 3 per mill, with a minimum of RF200 and a maximum of RF 5,000. Since March 1990, the National Bank of Rwanda has also authorized imports of goods financed with for- eign exchange outside the official channel. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to autho- rized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the central bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi, and Zaire. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from other member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency quoted by the central bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign pay- ments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the central bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and all imports of narcotics are prohibited. Imports of all other goods have been permitted under an open general license (OGL) system since July 1, 1992, and foreign exchange is provided upon request. Certain catego- ries of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the competent authori- ties, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poi- sons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. The central bank levies a validation fee of 1 per- cent of the f.o.b. value on import licenses that involve use of official foreign exchange or that are subject to inspection by international agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 per mill. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the central bank through an autho- rized bank. The approval of an import license appli- cation constitutes authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. Since March 1990, the central bank has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside official channels. The central bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure the firms' continuous operation; these licenses are valid for three months (six months for vehicle parts). 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 419 License applications are examined at the central bank to prevent overinvoicing. Dealers of imported automobiles are required to provide maintenance for the vehicles they sell. Used automobiles can be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer must guarantee the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin before shipment. Prices are verified at the same time. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the cen- tral bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The import tariff regime is governed by the tariff code of August 30,1991. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the central bank is required for all payments for invisibles. The central bank sells foreign exchange through authorized banks for transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and exports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except for payments through documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be arranged with a local insurance company established under Rwanda law. Up to 60 percent of salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con- tract, net of taxes and employee's share of social security contributions, may be transferred. Transfers of the net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or estab- lished as independent traders, are also made net of taxes and after deduction of local expenses. A fee of RF750 is levied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a mini- mum of RF 750. Net profits and dividends owed to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the central bank to pre- scribe their transfer in installments. Only traveler's checks in UAPTAs (Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States) are issued to travelers to PTA member states. Foreign account holders trav- eling in the PTA region may purchase foreign forms of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTAs. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing exchange regulations. Official travel requires a travel authorization issued by the Government or by a public agency, and fixed daily allowances are granted for travel. The frequency of business travel is not restricted, but business travel is restricted to licensed businessmen and the same daily allowances as official travel are granted for these trips. Other travel by residents requires valid documents justify- ing the reason for the trip (e.g., education and train- ing abroad, medical treatment, etc.); the approval of the central bank is required in case of tourism travel. Travel by nonresidents is allowed according to the terms stipulated in their employment contracts, and can take place once every year. Remittances for pay- ments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be pre- sented to the central bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank, which also reserves the right to determine the con- ditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be collected no later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to exports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the central banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within eight days of their collec- tion. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Commercial banks are not permit- ted to import domestic bank notes. The law requiring ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 RWANDA that travelers declare foreign exchange on entering Rwanda was abolished on December 1,1990. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the central bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfers relate to foreign investments in Rwanda or to the personal effects of foreign nationals returning to their own countries, provided that these effects have been bought with foreign exchange and sold to a resident national. Transfers of dividends to foreign shareholders are allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the central bank in respect of short-term capital inflows; licenses for retransfer of these foreign cur- rencies are valid for one year but may be extended at the request of the beneficiary of the financing. Transfers of proceeds from sales of real estate are suspended. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1993, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.2719, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar-and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 2 percent is lev- ied on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3,1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resid- ing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and may be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM).2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of documentary evi- dence of purchase to a bank, but payments in cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The common external tariff (CET) is between zero and 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange con- trol approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documen- tary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, pro- vided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Export pro- ceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency l rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montser- rat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS account or an approved U.S. dollar foreign cur- rency account. Duties are levied on exports of sugar and certain other products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets with the permission of the Min- istry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holding of gold for either numismatic or indus- trial purposes. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The GET was reduced to a range of 0-30 per- cent; the number of goods on the "negative" list of imports was reduced from over 100 to a few items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6994 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1 percent. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30,1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agricul- tural products are issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency lrThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montser- rat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. Nonresident (External) Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes. As funds in an external account are normally con- vertible into a foreign currency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A foreign currency account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or insti- tution) wishing to open a foreign currency account must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired for- eign currency. All payments from a foreign cur- rency account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. All goods, except certain agricultural and manufac- 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 ST. LUCIA hired products, may be imported without a license. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM countries. The importation of selected consumer items (e.g., rice, flour, and sugar) in bulk form is a state monopoly. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Goods produced or manufactured in the CARI- COM region may be imported duty free. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and the mem- ber countries of the Organization of Eastern Carib- bean States (OECS), certain imports for use in industry, agriculture, fishing, air and sea transport (under industrial incentive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fis- cal Incentives Ordinance. The rates of import duty in the OECS tariff vary from 5 percent on certain basic food items to 70 percent on bay rum and fire- arms. A customs service charge of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports except fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.20 percent. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. Per- sons traveling within the CARICOM area using CARI- COM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency) receive the basic allowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARI- COM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for resi- dents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any destination without a license. Proceeds must, in principle, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 percent of the f.o.b. value is levied on banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24,1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any for- eign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of l rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montser- rat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Finance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- tances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to external accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; these accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Car- ibbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of Eastern Car- ibbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, of the license. In 1993, import licenses covered about 8 percent of 4 The OECS comprises Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES the total import value. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. The import tariff rates range from zero to 35 percent. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a consumption tax, which ranges from 5 percent to 50 percent and is levied on the tariff-inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARI- COM are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the consumption tax. A customs service charge of 2 percent is imposed on the c.i.f. value of all imported goods.5 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medical treatment, education, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may pur- chase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel out- side the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$6,000 a year. These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance when a local medical practitioner presents a written state- ment of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treat- ment. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not they are purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. The amount of foreign cur- rency that may otherwise be purchased without the approval of the Ministry of Finance is limited to the equivalent of EC$50 a trip. tination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has del- egated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Mar- keting Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered within six months. A 2 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On presenting documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign coun- try, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines. The transfer of sums is normally limited to EC$20,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already residing in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion of proceeds from, such investment is permit- ted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any des- 5 The banana industry was exempted from this customs ser- vice charge on January 1,1994. Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 427 Changes During 1993 Nonresident Accounts January 1. The 1 percent tax on transactions con- ducted through nonresident accounts was eliminated. Imports and Import Payments January I, A customs service charge of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value of all imported goods was introduced. April 1. Phase I of the new Common External Tar- iff was implemented, with the highest tariff rate being reduced to 35 percent from 45 percent. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The banana industry was exempted from the 2 percent customs service charge. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The 3 percent export duty on bananas was reduced to 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of San Marino is the Italian Lira.1 The central monetary institution is the Istituto di Credito Sammarinese. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. San Marino formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 23,1992. Administration of Control When the Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations of May 1991 comes into effect, the Central Bank of San Marino will be a foreign exchange bank with the authority to grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions; cur- rently, Sammarinese banks may maintain accounts only with financial institutions in Italy. As a result, foreign exchange transactions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buying foreign exchange, at rates similar to those quoted in Italy, and to con- ducting third-country transactions through Italian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settle- ment effected through authorized Italian intermedi- aries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Adminis- tration). Direct settlements (with residents drawing on their own external accounts) authorized under Italian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990 have not yet been utilized. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. San Marino does not maintain any bilateral pay- ments arrangements. TThe Monetary Agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21,1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to Italian coinage; these coins will be legal tender in both countries. The San Marino gold scudo is also issued but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in transac- tions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). Residents and nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control by the relevant Italian regulations. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Trade is free of regulation except that the importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Imports into Italy are currently governed by Decree No. 40 of December 22,1972, as amended. Customs duties on imports from non-European Union (EU) member countries are collected by the EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian value-added tax, but the average effective rate is about 4 percent lower. Sales tax levied on imports are rebated when the goods are re-exported. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. Exports to Italy are not regulated, while exports to third countries are governed by relevant Italian regulations. Exports from Italy are currently gov- erned by Decree No. 40 of December 22, 1972, as amended. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 429 Capital All inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Foreign direct investments, irrespective of the extent of owner- ship, require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. The purchase and ownership of real property by nonnationals require approval from the Council of Twelve, and approval is granted on merit and on a case-by-case basis. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of profits or capital. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms; that is, invest- ment incentives that are available to domestic investors are equally available to foreign investors. Gold International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, the external value of which is pegged to a basket of currencies of the country's nine major trading partners. The authori- ties follow a crawling peg policy. The intervention currency for the dobra is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the exchange rate (middle rate) for the U.S. dollar was Db 516.7 per US$1. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the cur- rencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purpose of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrangements are as follows: when a letter of credit is opened, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission of 0.5 percent to the Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe. A stamp duty of 0.35 percent is also pay- able, as well as a postage levy of Db 140. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 250. On foreign checks for collection, a commission is applied in favor of the collecting foreign correspon- dents and varies from bank to bank. In addition, the International Bank of Sao Tome and Principe charges a postage levy of Db 90 for each transac- tion, together with an endorsement stamp fee of Db30. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 44 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export pro- ceeds, a commission of 0.25 percent is charged when the letter of credit is opened and a fee of 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addi- tion, a postage levy of Db 1,200 is also charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are made through the International Bank and three foreign exchange bureaus, which apply the exchange con- trols flexibly and in accordance with instructions from the Central Bank. All foreign exchange pro- ceeds must be surrendered to, and all exchange payments must be made through, the International Bank or the foreign exchange bureaus, with the exception of 30 percent of earnings retained by pro- ducer-exporters for import payments purposes. (See the section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below.) Import and export licenses are automatically granted and recorded by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Cape Verde, but is currently inoperative. The agree- ment provides for the central banks of the two coun- tries to grant each other a reciprocal non-interest- bearing credit of $200,000; it also provides that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance would be set- tled through appropriate trade transactions. Imports and Import Payments All registered importers (including productive entities) are permitted to engage in import activity. Fuels and lubricants are imported by the public fuel enterprise, and medicines by the public pharma- ceutical enterprise and the private pharmaceutical sector. Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Registration Bulletins, which are valid for six months but may be extended if neces- sary. However, any legal importer may import products without such Bulletins if the imports are to be settled with his own foreign exchange and the imports are registered for customs operations. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. When importers open letters of credit, the International Bank requires them to lodge a non-interest-bearing deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 431 value of the letters of credit; the remainder may be financed with a 120-day loan. Prepayment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with correspondent banks of the International Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles are approved within limits established by the Central Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for purposes of tourism are limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic cur- rency. Private citizens are permitted to travel abroad only once every three years. However, trav- elers for business purposes are permitted to pur- chase tickets up to five times a year. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before independence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remit- tances for subscriptions to periodicals and books or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 300,000. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresi- dent nationals who had been receiving such allow- ances before 1980. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a stu- dent is granted permission to transfer up to the equivalent of Db 15,000 a month, or Db 40,000 a quarter, for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts must be approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2.5 percent, or 5 percent when pay- ments are made through telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 90 is payable on all transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, issued in accordance with Advance Export Registration Bul- letins, which specify the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be collected through the International Bank. However, Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code, which was implemented on October 15, 1992. Foreign capital investments are permitted on the same basis as domestic invest- ment. Prospecting and extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries are excluded. Up to 15 percent a year of investment profits may be repa- triated. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector invest- ments in activities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance pro- grams are allowed to transfer their savings in accor- dance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control February 17. Decree No. 2/93 establishing the basic legal framework for foreign exchange transac- tions was issued. March 3. The International Bank of Sao Tome and Principe was established and began to conduct com- mercial functions (which were previously handled by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe). August 4. Decree No. 47/93 establishing foreign exchange bureaus was issued. Foreign exchange bureaus were permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange to facilitate payments for tourism, health care, education abroad, and imports up to the value of $2,000. Foreign exchange for imports in excess of $2,000 must be obtained from the International Bank. September 8. Decree No. 51/93 replacing the administered rules for import licensing with a mechanism for automatic licensing was issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Ara- bian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent around the fixed relation- ship are allowed; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; its rate against the riyal is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. On Decem- ber 31,1993, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; the selling rate for U.S. dollars to banks was SRls 3.75 per US$1, and the buying rate from banks was SRls 3.74 per US$1. These rates, which have not changed since June 1, 1986, serve as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks of up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22,1961. Administration of Control In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14,1952, Saudi Arabia notified the Fund on September 15,1992 that, in compliance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. 1 In addition, all imports from and all exports to these coun- tries are prohibited; payments may neither be made to them nor received from them for any type of transaction, whether current or capital. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for rea- sons of religion, health, or national security. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates rang- ing between zero and 12 percent; for a short list of imports, the rate is 20 percent, and for tobacco products, 30 percent. Imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempt, provided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Certain imported items that are subsidized by the Government may not be re-exported. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian bank notes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval before floating loans denominated in riyals. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Monetary Agency before inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or outside Saudi Ara- bia. Prior approval from the Monetary Agency is also required for local banks to participate in either riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad or for- eign currency-syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for certain benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Pro- tection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 433 capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without paying any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, except manu- factured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12 percent customs duty; gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market for the currency concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks charge an exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill on purchases and sales of for- eign exchange, depending on the amount, other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is avail- able to residents only for imports of a specified cat- egory of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Forward cover may be pro- vided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must corre- spond to the due date of foreign exchange settle- ment stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the issuance, publicizing, and tendering of transferable securities and real property, and applications for investment abroad, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territo- ries) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Came- roon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are free of commission. Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit, which has delegated a part of the approval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The Ministry of Commerce and Handi- crafts issues export authorizations and prior import authorizations for listed products. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Senegal is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House arrangement. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted. The BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of BCEAO bank notes circulating outside the terri- tories of the CFA franc zone, and therefore nonresi- dent accounts may not be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 435 Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored-nation treatment of all Senegal's commercial partners was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restric- tions and prior authorization requirements for cer- tain imports are now based only on the type of product, not on the country of origin or transship- ment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agricultural policy, sanita- tion, or protection of certain products (cement, fertil- izers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c.i.f.). The exchange autho- rizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange but not earlier than eight days before the goods are shipped to Senegal if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presenta- tion of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports, with the exception of down payments, are permitted only after the proper documents for cus- toms clearance are submitted. Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the contractual date of the payments. All imports, except those in transit and those intended for the free zone of Dakar, are subject to a service fee of 6 percent or 12 percent, depending on their customs classification. All imports valued (f.o.b.) at more than CFAF 1.5 million are subject to inspection by international agencies with respect to quality, quantity, price, and tariff classification. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect abroad payments of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted when a request for exchange authorization is submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone that are not members of the WAMU are allowed to take out bank notes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be com- bined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits are subject to the authoriza- tion of the respective ministries of finance; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective ministers of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All residents travel- ing to countries that are not members of the WAMU must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in their name. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings and other means of pay- ment issued in Senegal requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presenting the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, cereals, peanuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated precious met- als, articles made of these metals, precious metal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 SENEGAL products, and costume jewelry), exports do not require prior authorization. Certain nontraditional exports to nonmember countries of the West Afri- can Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible for an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Pro- ceeds from exports to foreign countries, including members of the WAMU and the Operations Account countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domi- ciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require the approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or offering for sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal must be declared to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has two months from receiving the declaration to request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether Senegalese investments abroad or foreign/ investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Min- ister of Economy, Finance, and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lend- ing abroad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; and (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The repayment of loans not consti- tuting a direct investment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if it did not require authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in 3 Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 437 Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require authorization from the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning to conduct their busi- ness. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization from the Minister of Commerce and Handicrafts; imports of ornaments require the prior approval of the Directorate of Handicrafts and the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Senegal (and other member countries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BCEAO) in circulation outside the African countries that are members of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Fol- lowing this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regula- tions would be uniform among the member coun- tries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Como- ros), the new regulations established limits pertain- ing to the amount of bank notes that can be taken out by travelers (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes other than CFA franc bank notes for the equiv- alent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations adopted by the WAMU member countries increased the previous limits as follows: (1) for tourist travel, the limits were raised to a uni- form ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances can be combined with tourist allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits would be subject to the authorization of the respective ministries of finance; (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and specifically authorized by the respective ministries of finance, could be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourist and business travel to countries outside the WAMU; and (5) with regard to repatriation by resident travelers of means of payment, the new regulations intro- duced for all WAMU countries a uniform require- ment of declaration at customs and of surrendering within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros and other non-WAMU countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. With regard to nonresident travelers, the new pro- vision introduced a uniform requirement to declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler would not be restricted. The regulations increased to CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restric- tion. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above this ceiling and other means of payment issued in Senegal would require documentation demonstrat- ing either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment regis- tered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. December 20. The authorities of the WAMU decided to suspend the repurchase by the BCEAO of bank notes of its issue exported to BEAC member countries. The exchange regulations were amended accordingly, as follows: (1) the provisions applicable to France and the Comoros were extended to BEAC member coun- tries in respect of payments instruments that are car- ried by travelers to these countries (Circular No. 268 of December 31,1993); and (2) remittances of BCEAO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 SENEGAL bank notes by mail or any other means between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents outside the territory of WAMU members would be prohibited (Circular No. 11505 of December 31,1993). Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 from CFAF 50 per F 1. Administration of Control February 28. Ordinance Nos. 94-28 and 94-29, relating to financial relations with foreign entities and disputes pertaining to exchange control viola- tions, respectively, were promulgated in order to standardize regulations within the WAMU. Imports and Import Payments February 15. Ordinance No. 94-25 reduced to a uniform rate of 5 percent the customs stamp tax applicable to all imported goods. Exports and Export Proceeds January 31. Following the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994, Ordinance No. 94-19 eliminated export tax measures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 per SDR1. Exchange rates for various currencies (including the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Cen- tral Bank of the Seychelles circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the pound sterling were SR 7.7594 and SR 7.8370, respectively, per £stg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on pur- chases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in pounds sterling and other curren- cies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective curren- cies. Commercial banks are required to transfer 15 percent of their gross inflows of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3,1978. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Finance controls foreign trade and domestic mar- keting through a mechanism of import and price controls. Import controls are exercised over pre- scribed goods by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Finance, while price controls are administered by the Seychelles Licensing Authority on behalf of the Ministry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external commercial payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. No restrictions are placed on payments for imports. Importers are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import/ Export Control Section of the Ministry of Finance. Certain essential items (including sugar, flour, oil, margarine, rice, and animal feed) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade tax, at rates ranging from 5 percent to 400 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 5 percent to 50 percent). Some basic necessities, including milk and some other foodstuffs, are exempted from the trade tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally require licenses issued by the Import/Export Section of the Ministry of Finance. Residents may export goods without exchange con- trol formality to any country. Export proceeds are subject to a surrender requirement of 15 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited (trading is defined as both buying and selling). Foreign currency may be accepted by busi- nesses in payment for goods and services. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of foreign-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limitation. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent resi- dents and by companies and other organizations 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 SEYCHELLES operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, additional investments in existing enti- ties in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, that is, agri- culture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. Additionally, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold and Agriculture Organization; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in February 1986 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in June 1986 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence; (6) a coin in the denomi- nation of SR 1,000 issued in June 1987 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the f i f th of June 1977 Liberation; (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 issued in December 1988 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank; and (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in April 1990 to mark EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has issued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the f if th anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 issued in April 1984 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food January 1. The rate of import surcharge was reduced to 50 percent. July 1. The import surcharge was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A temporary surrender requirement at the rate of 3.5 percent was introduced. August 19. A temporary 3.5 percent surrender requirement introduced in January 1993 was with- drawn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone. Exchange rates are freely determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with cus- tomers and trade among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (the central bank) on a freely negotia- ble basis. The central bank determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, which is based on the weighted-average rate of commercial bank and foreign exchange bureau transactions in the previous week. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates were Le 571.91 and Le 583.35, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the central bank, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with certain countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under a bilateral pay- ments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. The West African Clearing House provides for settle- ments with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified currency.1 Residents and nonresidents in Sierra Leone are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any convertible currency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which no minimum balance has been stipulated, earn interest at a rate determined by the commer- cial banks. They may be credited with funds trans- ferred from abroad and may be converted into leones to meet local expenditure of the account holder. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign cur- rency accounts are permitted for current transac- tions without prior approval from the central bank. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. In addition, there are blocked accounts, the balances on which are blocked at a bank by order of the Secretary of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All goods may be imported freely without a license. Authority to approve transactions is dele- gated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be supported by shipping documents and submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources are permitted without letters of credit established with a local commercial bank. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the Government. A sales tax of 17.5 percent of the landed value is levied on all imports except for capital goods and their spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food. All imports by unincorporated businesses are subject to a tax of 2 percent as advance payment of income taxes. 1Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 Payments for Invisibles SIERRA LEONE Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowances in excess of $5,000 a trip must be referred to the cen- tral bank for approval. Commercial banks are authorized to approve school fees up to the full amount payable directly to the school upon presentation of bills by the schools concerned. They may also approve educational and maintenance expenses abroad of $10,000 a year and medical treatment expenses of up to $10,000. Appli- cations for payments in excess of the amounts pre- scribed must be submitted to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of limits, including allowances for medical treatment abroad, are approved liber- ally upon submission of documentary proof of need. A maximum of 40 percent of an expatriate's gross salary may be remitted abroad for family mainte- nance purposes. At the end of their contract, for- eigners are allowed to remit all of their savings. Profits and dividends earned from foreign invest- ment may be repatriated on submission of docu- mentary evidence that capital was originally brought into the country. Public sector employees on official business may take out foreign exchange from Sierra Leone up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out with them up to Le 50,000 in Sierra Leo- nean currency notes. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for six months, are issued by the Department of Mines. All exporters are required to complete exchange control (CD2) forms, which should be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank and the central bank. Exports of the following articles are prohib- ited: those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewelry or orna- ments up to a value not exceeding the leone equiva- lent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Licensed exporters of diamonds are allowed to transact their business in U.S. dollars and must pay an administrative fee of 1.5 percent and an income tax of 1.5 percent, which are based on the value of the diamonds exported and payable in U.S. dollars.2 Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced are not subject to the repatri- ation requirement. All goods exported from Sierra Leone, except for those exempted by the Secretary of Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verifi- cation, which is undertaken by an inspection com- pany appointed by the Government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspec- tion fee of 1 percent before clearing their goods through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Arriv- ing nonresident travelers, unless exempted, are required to exchange $100 for domestic currency upon arrival in Sierra Leone. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the central bank to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by non- residents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. The Sierra Leonean Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securi- ties. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securi- ties or the person for whom he serves as nominee resides outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities reg- istered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resid- ing abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. Income tax and customs duty conces- 2 The income tax was lowered to 1 percent effective January 1, 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 443 sions to foreign and domestic companies undertak- ing industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country are pro- vided in the Sierra Leone Export Development and Investment Corporation of 1993. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business under the Noncitizens Trade and Busi- ness Act of 1969. Residents of Sierra Leone must either sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer or hold a foreign currency account with a commer- cial bank in Sierra Leone. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of ster- ling assets held before June 24, 1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the central bank. Exempted securities may be sold out- side the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other former Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily residing in Sierra Leone are also exempt from sur- render and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the central bank. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leo- nean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments June 29. The sales tax on imported goods was increased from 15 percent to 17.5 percent; capital goods, spare parts, petroleum products, and baby food were exempted. The 10 percent sales tax on rice was replaced with an import tariff of 15 percent. Unincorporated businesses were required to pay a 2 percent tax on the c.i.f. value of imports to the Cus- toms Department as advance payment of income taxes by unincorporated business. Capital November 29. The Development of Industries Act (of 1983) was repealed (and it was announced that new legislation providing for incentives for private sector investments would be promulgated in May 1994). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and its exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Mone- tary Authority of Singapore (MAS) monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, with the objec- tive of promoting noninflationary sustainable eco- nomic growth. The closing interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1993 were S$1.6075 and S$1.6080, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on the currencies' exchange rates against the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. Banks are free to deal in all curren- cies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an active short-term foreign exchange swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9,1968. Administration of Control There are no formal exchange controls, but the MAS retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products under its control. Financial assets owned by residents of Haiti, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are blocked. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Very few items imported into Singapore are duti- able. The highest duties are levied on liquors, tobacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a duty of 5 percent or less ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Singapore is a party to the Agreement on the Common Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The CEPT Scheme came into operation on January 1, 1993, and Singapore does not impose duties on imports from other ASEAN countries, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are perma- nently excluded under the terms of the CEPT Scheme. Import licenses are required for rice, irre- spective of the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that may be used for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and non- resident travelers may take out any amount in for- eign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Exports of arms and ammunitions and some other products to Angola, Haiti, and Libya are also pro- hibited. Certain exports originating in Singapore— for example, textiles and textile products—are sub- ject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the members of the European Union. Export licenses are required for granite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no restriction on export proceeds. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 445 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange controls in 1978, Singapore residents, including corporations, are allowed to make payments in all currencies to any country outside Singapore without restriction. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks, merchant banks, and finance and insurance companies must consult the Monetary Authority of Singapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must also have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Currency Units (ACUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with the ACU because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An ACU is a separate accounting unit of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income from transacting with nonresidents in foreign cur- rency; these institutions operate in the Asian dollar market. Transactions in Singapore dollars cannot be booked in the ACUs. There are no restrictions on either direct or port- folio investments in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Government approval is required for foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that has been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. Foreign- ers may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more stories and in approved con- dominium developments without such approval. Foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration to purchase other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of foreign companies, to accom- modate their senior personnel. The maximum limit on the proportion of foreign shareholding in local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and compa- nies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and any person in Singapore can deal freely in gold. For imports, gold bars weighing 1 kilogram and above and 10-tola bars are exempt from the 3 percent goods and services tax (GST) if they are meant for re-exports. Gold may also be traded in the local market and the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" basis for delivery of 995 fine gold. Kilobars of 999.9 fineness are most commonly traded. Spot gold prices for settlement in Singapore are derived by adjusting the "loco-London" price with the location premium, which takes into account the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures con- tract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak Koruna.1 The official exchange rate is pegged to a basket of five currencies and determined in fixing sessions conducted by the National Bank of Slova- kia.2 On December 31, 1993, the central rate was Sk 33,202 per U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Bank is responsible for the adminis- tration of exchange controls and regulations in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. In gen- eral, the Ministry of Finance has authority over governmental credits and over budgetary and sub- sidized organizations, civic associations, churches, foundations, and juridical persons who are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities. The National Bank has authority over the activities of all regis- tered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Except for trade with the Czech Republic, settle- ments are effected in convertible currency. Since Feb- ruary 1993, commercial transactions with the Czech Republic must be effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two countries. Transactions are converted from the currency of the contract into clearing ECUs at a rate that may differ by up to 5 percent from the market cross rate against the ECU set by the central banks; as of December 31, 1993, the exchange rate of the Slovak koruna against the clearing ECU was 5 percent below the market cross rate. If the balances on the account outstanding at the end of each month exceed clearing ECU 130 million, the excess amount is settled by the fifteenth of the following month. Payments by legal persons and enterprises in connection with obligations incurred before February 8,1993 are effected through another set of clearing accounts denominated in clearing koruny converted to ECUs at the exchange 1PThe Slovak koruna was issued on February 4,1993, following the dissolution of the currency union with the Czech Republic. 2 The currencies are U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, Austrian schillings, French francs, and Swiss francs. rate of February 8, 1993. These accounts are settled every three months. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Slovak resident individuals (including unregis- tered entrepreneurs) may open interest-bearing for- eign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31, 1990 have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new foreign exchange accounts, however, may be opened by enterprises after December 31,1990, with only a prior permit from the National Bank that exempts enterprises from the 100 percent surrender requirement. Bal- ances on these accounts may be freely used to finance enterprises' activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Slovak Republic. All payments abroad from these accounts for invisibles, except transfers relating to inheritance and alimony, require a per- mit from the National Bank. These permits are granted only in exceptional cases. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts, in the Slovak Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private individual. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and ammu- nition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by variable levies applies to imports of 12 agricultural products and 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 447 coal. All imports, except those from the Czech Republic, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging from zero to 15 percent with a few excep- tions. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General- ized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction from the applicable customs duties. Advance payments for imports are restricted to 15 percent for imports exceeding Sk 1 million. A resident individual is required to repatriate for- eign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account foreign exchange (including gold, with the excep- tion of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Sk 5,000. Resident enterprises are normally required to repatriate, without delay, foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), to facilitate voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or to preserve natural resources or imported raw materials (i.e., energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, and construction materials) for the domestic market. For the two latter groups of products, nei- ther quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a certain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Slovak residents may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign cur- rency accounts to make invisible payments. In addi- tion, the annual limit on foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel abroad is the equiva- lent of Sk 9,000. Official travel by employees of bud- getary and subsidized organizations is subject to different allowances, depending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to all countries. A special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family mainte- nance, education, and medical treatment. Repatriation of wage savings in koruny by non- resident workers must be authorized by the National Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, the exportation and importation of koruna bank notes abroad are restricted. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of for- eign exchange assets, including foreign currencies, by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain trade credits. Financial credits from abroad require a spe- cial permit from the National Bank. Foreign direct investments abroad are subject to approval from the National Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by non- residents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the National Bank. For- eign exchange equity participation of foreign inves- tors can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a resident commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, they are allowed to repatriate freely the full value of their capital partic- ipation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the exception of gold coins) to financial institutions dealing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisition. Without a foreign exchange license, nonresidents may export inherited gold coins, pro- vided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the coun- try. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement February 8. The Slovak koruna was introduced as the national currency of the Slovak Republic follow- ing the dissolution of the currency union with the Czech Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments February 2. Advance payments for imports were restricted to 15 percent for imports exceeding Sk 1 million. Suppliers' credits for consumer and interme- diary goods and for capital goods were set at three months and three to five years, respectively. (This restriction was abolished on December 1,1993.) Changes During 1994 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The annual limit on foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was increased to the equivalent of Sk 9,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Slovenia is the Tolar, which was introduced on October 8,1991 and replaced the Yugo- slav dinar at parity. The external value of the tolar is determined in the exchange market by demand and supply conditions. The Bank of Slovenia (BOS) may also participate in the foreign exchange market and may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the Government and commercial banks. Resi- dents may conduct unlimited exchange transactions among themselves, and households may conduct for- eign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. The BOS does not prescribe spreads between buying and sell- ing rates for banks' transactions with the public, and banks are free to set their own commissions. On December 31,1993, the official exchange rate in terms of the U.S. doUar was Tl 130.6561 per US$1. The BOS publishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting purposes. There is no forward market for foreign exchange, but forward foreign exchange transactions are not prohibited. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange market operations are gov- erned by the Law on Foreign Exchange Business (promulgated on June 25,1991). The law introduced a free foreign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices and stipulated the rules and regulations for foreign exchange transactions. The Law on Foreign Trade Transactions, approved by Parliament in February 1993, sets out the rules and regulations governing foreign trade activities. It came into force on March 27,1993. Prescription of Currency Slovenia maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment with Croatia, under which trade between the two countries may be settled through accounts in local currency or in foreign currencies, and with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Resident individuals and nonresidents are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts without restriction. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts with the proceeds from sales of foreign exchange or of goods and ser- vices to residents. Balances (including accrued interest) in these accounts may not be converted into convertible currencies and repatriated unless they have been acquired through sales of foreign exchange by nonresidents or for settlement of indemnities, transfers of personal labor income paid to a foreign person employed by an enterprise in Slovenia, payments of insurance premiums, and transfers of inheritance. Domestic legal entities are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts; exceptions are provided for in the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. To accept foreign cash payments, as well as to pay with foreign cash is restricted. Residents are required, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Business, to obtain permission from the BOS. Imports and Import Payments Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control only, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammunition) for security and public health reasons, in accordance with international conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products. Under the system managed by the Chamber of Commerce, quotas are frequently revised and allocated to Slovenian importers. In general, the quotas are distributed among the applicants in the volume of production (for a producer) or turnover (for a trader). In accordance with the sanctions of the United Nations, imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. The tariff regime under the Customs Tariff Law of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugosla- via is still in force with some modifications, but a new law on customs and tariff is under preparation. The main modifications are that the 7.5 percent 1PThe Republic of Slovenia (along with the Republic of Croatia) succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with effect from December 14,1992. 2 In these cases, tolars may be converted only into the currency of the country of the person's residence and under conditions of reciprocity. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SLOVENIA import surcharge levied on certain products was abolished, and the equalization tax on all products was reduced to 1 percent. A 1 percent general cus- toms formality tax for customs clearance is levied on all imports. At present, the customs duty rates range from zero to 25 percent and average 13 per- cent, excluding exemptions. The proceeds are used for insurance and export promotion. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, except that residents are not allowed to trans- fer abroad receipts from services (including interest), and earnings must be spent in Slovenia. Exports and Export Proceeds In accordance with the sanctions of the United Nations, exports to the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance with the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. Exports of textile products to the European Union (EU) are governed by the Agree- ment between the EU and the Republic of Slovenia on Trade in Textile products, initialed on July 23, 1993; textile products originating in Slovenia are free from quantitative limits. The EU imposes tariff ceilings for only five categories of products. Export taxes are levied on the following products: unworked wood, 15 percent; worked wood, 10 per- cent; and scrap metal, 25 percent. Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia as credit arrangements. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely negotiated exchange rate or to use the pro- ceeds for payments abroad. After that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Exporters are exempt from customs duties payable on raw materials and intermediate and semiprocessed goods used to produce export goods, provided that the value of exports is at least 30 percent higher than the value of imports, if there is no domestic produc- tion of imported goods. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on proceeds from invisibles. Capital In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreign Credit Transactions, resident juridical per- sons may borrow abroad on commercial terms without restriction. The Government may, however, issue guarantees and borrow abroad only in accor- dance with specific laws passed by Parliament. Resident juridical persons may maintain accounts abroad only in specific cases as provided for by law and with the permission of the BOS. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad. Resident companies may extend loans to nonresi- dent persons only with profits obtained from abroad. The Law on Foreign Investments of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is still being applied in Slovenia. A new law is under consideration. Deposit money banks are required to hold for- eign exchange deposits abroad as cover against domestically held foreign exchange deposits of domestic and foreign individual persons. The required deposits range from 5 percent to 90 per- cent, depending on the maturity of domestically held deposits. They are also required to hold depos- its abroad in an amount equal to 35 percent of their average monthly turnover of convertible payments over the preceding three months. Short-term bank borrowing abroad is limited to 15 percent of the minimum amount of the foreign exchange that banks are obliged to hold on certain accounts abroad and in the country. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 24. Financial borrowing abroad with the intention to convert to tolars is permitted. Administration of Control March 27. The Law on Foreign Trade came into force. Capital February 26. Restrictions on short-term bank bor- rowing abroad were changed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of its relationship to a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate prevailing at the end of the previous month. The Central Bank provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in dealings with the public were US$0.3088 and US$0.3070, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. A forward cover facility exists mainly for bona fide trade or trade-related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent resi- dents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars for periods of one to six months. The Cen- tral Bank also provides the commercial banks with daily limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commercial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to ten basis points above or below the Central Bank's forward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24,1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank through the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain types of applications for exchange control approval, up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange con- trol purposes, unless they have been granted tem- porary resident status by an authorized dealer or the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resi- dent status are normally approved for citizens of foreign countries who intend to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or have already resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property or a business indicates permanent resident status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. Tem- porary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Solomon Islands notified the Fund, on Octo- ber 14, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to persons resident outside Solomon Islands may be met only by payments in that currency. Export pro- ceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required in order for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, provided it can be shown that they are 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 SOLOMON ISLANDS properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 without reference to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to pur- chase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing per- manently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, provided the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their pass- ports and airline tickets. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods other than round logs without exchange control formality, but they must comply with the terms of the General Author- ity issued by the Central Bank. The essential condi- tions of this General Authority require that payments for exported goods be received within three months of the date of exportation, that the export price be no lower than the price an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive for the goods for export to the destination involved at the date when those goods were sold or contracted to be sold under open market conditions, and that the proceeds be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. If exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of passengers. Exports of round logs require Specific Authority from the Central Bank. The condition for issuance of a Specific Authority to export round logs is a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation and Environment. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 27 percent if valued at US$75 or less (per cubic meter) and of 32 percent if valued at more than US$75 (per cubic meter). Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditures. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned investment capital, repayment of loans contracted overseas, and the remittance of temporary resi- dents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. For port- folio investments, approval from the Central Bank is needed before permanent residents may acquire or dispose of foreign securities. Approval is not normally given for the acquisition of overseas port- folio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired before March 1,1977. Approval from the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas must have approval from the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. If initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold effect from January 20, 1992, the approval limit of authorized dealers were established at SI$5,000 a transaction, SI$5,000 a customer a week, and SI$25,000 a customer a year. On February 18,1993, the limit on individual transactions approved by authorized dealer was raised to SI$25,000. Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 453 authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The rate of import levy was reduced to 8 percent. Payments for Invisibles February 18. The limit above which purchases of foreign exchange may be approved by the autho- rized dealers was raised to SI$25,000. All payments above SI$25,000 would be approved by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The export price monitoring system for logs was introduced. Logging companies would be required to obtain a market price certificate from the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation and Environ- ment, as a condition for issuance of specific author- ity to export by the Central Bank, prior to loading and clearance. Changes During 1994 Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The rate of export duty on logs valued at less than US$75 per cubic meter, was raised to 27 percent and that on logs valued at more than US$75, to 32 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Soma- lia's main trading partners. The official exchange rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the rela- tive rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. The official exchange rate applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the Government. The exchange rate in the free market is negotiated freely between resi- dent holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,2 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the two commercial banks operating as the autho- rized dealers of the Central Bank in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sec- tor. The commercial banks also do not conduct for- ward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although they are not prohibited from doing so. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency charged with imple- menting and operating trade controls. The state-trading organization, the National Grain Agency, is responsible for importing and distribut- ing certain commodities received under aid pro- grams. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 2); Curing 1993, the IMF did not receive from the Somali author- ities the information needed for a description of the exchange and trade system. 2 Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian rivals, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, inter- national institutions, and nonresidents. External accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both res- idents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be deb- ited for any external payment. Residents may trans- fer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between resi- dents and nonresidents taking place through exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers holding export/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jew- elry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The National Petroleum Agency is responsi- ble for importing all fuels and fuel products. Capa- ble entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted to import and distribute petroleum prod- ucts provided that they have safe storage and distri- bution facilities. All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at a commer- cial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign cur- rency account with the commercial bank; in such a 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 455 case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a sus- pense account until the time of settlement of the let- ter of credit. A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds provided by the Italian Government under the Commodity Import Program are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit requests for foreign exchange, accompanied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount requested. Before June 1990, the official exchange rate applied to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceeded the available funds, for- eign exchange was allocated proportionally among importers. Since then these funds have been sold through a Dutch auction mechanism (bidders pur- chasing foreign exchange at their bid price), with the official exchange rate serving as the floor price. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for current invisibles through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to for- eign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be pur- chased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the fol- lowing limits: (1) education allowances, $1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, $200 a person a trip; and (3) medical treatment, $3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. All foreign travelers are required to pay an airport departure tax of $20 or the equivalent in any foreign currency, and Somali nationals are required to pay the tax equiva- lent to $10 in domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval; the state monopoly in exports of hides and skins was discontinued in 1990. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers of bananas and livestock may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70 percent of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under letter-of-credit arrangements, an advance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of exports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Exporters of services may retain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remain- der to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resi- dent travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial banks at the official exchange rate. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Invest- ment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Invest- ment Law stipulates priorities for foreign invest- ments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from the transfer of convertible currency, in the form of machinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in con- nection with the intended investment). There are no outright and sectoral restrictions to foreign invest- ment or phase-out provisions; nor does the law pre- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 SOMALIA elude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for approval in each case within a 60-day period by the Foreign Investment Board, which has final author- ity over all matters concerning foreign investment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which pro- vides advice and guidance to foreign investors on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional frame- work, and assists at the incorporation and setting- up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in convertible currency. There are no restrictions on reinvestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be transferred in any subsequent year. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after taxes are paid. The Foreign Investment Law restricts the possibility of expropriation to cases where public interest can- not be satisfied by other measures. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the investment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force between the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Convention for the Settlement of Investment Dis- putes. If no agreement is applicable, the law pro- vides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agree- ment or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, res- idents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that originate in member countries of the European Union are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but do intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1993, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were R 3.3970 buying and R 3.3980 selling, respectively, per US$1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to provide for- ward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange con- tracts may cover the entire period of the outstand- ing commitments or accruals. Subject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in the com- mercial rand forward market against U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions, with the mar- gin based on an interest rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at mar- ket rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term offshore financing of capital goods imports and affected indebtedness that has been converted into long-term loans. Gold mining com- panies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their fu ture gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The freely floating "financial" rand system (with- out the participation of Swaziland) operates with respect to (1) the local sale and redemption pro- ceeds of South African securities and other invest- ments in South Africa owned by nonresidents; (2) outward remittances by emigrants; inward remittances by immigrants, and certain inward investment capital transfers; and (3) approved out- ward capital transfers by residents. The exchange rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1993, the discount was about 27 percent. The closing mid- point exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1993 was R 4.3000 per US$1. The authorities may intervene in the mar- ket to influence the rates quoted for the financial rand. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 15,1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Africa and Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia, Swa- ziland, Transkei, and Venda; these, together with the Republic of South Africa, form a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated many of its powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export permits, when required, are gen- erally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Ministers of Finance and of Trade and Industry. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, when advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen- tary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia but not in Authorized dealers can permit, without the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33 Vs percent of the ex fac- tory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SOUTH AFRICA Swaziland.2 Settlements by or to residents of the Common Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a nonresi- dent account and in any foreign currency. 3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into nonresident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with pay- ments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Com- mon Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Financial rand accounts are the accounts of nonres- idents of the Common Monetary Area and are sub- ject to exchange control restrictions. These accounts, which are maintained with authorizedbanks, are used to credit local sales and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents. Immigrants (excluding former South African residents) arriving on or after September 12, 1990 may introduce their capital in financial rand without the Reserve Bank's approval during the first five years of their resi- dence. Up to R 500,000 of these funds may be released locally per family during the first year of residence, subject to certain restrictions. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members, acting as agents on behalf of nonresidents, are per- mitted to buy and sell financial rand. Authorized banks are permitted to transfer financial rand bal- ances freely from one financial rand account on their books to another on their own books or on the 2Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland, maloti bank notes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar notes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal ten- der in South Africa. 3 Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency refer to any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but not to the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a natural or juridical person whose usual place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Com- mon Monetary Area. books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or public utility stocks. On application and approval, nonresidents may use financial rand to purchase other assets. The local sale proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants before their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within five years of their arrival are also credited to financial rand accounts. Assets immigrants acquire abroad after taking up resi- dence in South Africa may not be brought into the country through financial rand. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the Common Monetary Area and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Any cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to residents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23,1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The per- mits are valid for imports from any country. Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, pro- duced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural prod- ucts from Malawi and Zimbabwe. Importers are automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). The system of import licensing, which affects most agricultural and a number of manufactured products, is being ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 459 phased out and replaced with selective tariff mea- sures. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a value-added tax; locally produced goods are also subject to the tax. Import surcharges are lev- ied at varying rates, ranging from 5 percent on cer- tain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential goods. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may, without consulting the Reserve Bank, approve current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, and roy- alties, that accrue in South Africa, provided that (1) the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remittance of profits and dividends is based on normal trading profits gener- ated after January 1, 1984 and does not involve local credit facilities. The Reserve Bank gives favor- able consideration to such transfers when the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their country of residence, and limited amounts of exchange to pay for such items as membership fees and family maintenance are authorized. There is an indicative limit on the allowance for travel by tourists of R 20,000 a year for an adult (R 10,000 for a child under 12). Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 6,000 for an adult (R 3,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe). In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized deal- ers may grant allowances for overseas business trips at a rate not exceeding R 1,800 a day, up to R 30,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring countries listed above is R 12,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 900 a day. Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, how- ever, may not exceed R 500, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. For- eign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R500 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. These limitations on the exportation of Reserve Bank notes do not apply to contract work- ers returning to neighboring countries, who are per- mitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the exporta- tion of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds To be sold outside the Southern African Customs Union, exports of specified commodities consid- ered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. To ensure that exchange control procedures are more effectively applied when export proceeds are repatriated, except exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive payments based on the f.o.b. value of exports, the local content of products, the extent of processing involved, and the movement in the real effective exchange rate in terms of a basket of currencies of South Africa's major trading partners since 1979. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless an exemption is obtained. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries outside the Common Mon- etary Area may bring in R500 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 Capital5 SOUTH AFRICA All inward loan transfers require specific approval,6 although inward transfers for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on for- eign stock exchanges are generally not permitted, except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 each in financial rand, to allow South African residents to exercise shareholders' rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted on stock exchanges outside the Common Monetary Area. South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Nonresidents are not allowed to use financial rand to purchase farms and residential properties. Applications by South African residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects, or for the expansion of existing projects owned or con- trolled by South Africans, are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments designed to foster exports and maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete statement of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Africa may, through the same channel, be retrans- ferred abroad within the first five years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents of South Africa 5 Securities are defined not only as quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also as unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, munici- pal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. "Scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6 Domestic entrepreneurs are generally given approval for bor- rowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South African foreign trade and for other approved purposes. to residents must be credited to financial rand accounts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) in financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. Up to R 300,000 per fiscal year of income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a nonresi- dent account. Any balance exceeding the permissi- ble transferable amount must be credited to a financial rand account; the total net income earned from such an account may be transferred, in addi- tion to the R 300,000 mentioned above. A family or single person emigrating can export one motor vehicle with a maximum value of R 75,000, pro- vided that the vehicle was purchased at least one year before emigration. Emigrants can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 75,000, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in their possession for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given to nonresi- dent-owned branches and subsidiaries for the transfer of open or approved loan account bal- ances;7 current profits earned after January 1, 1984; and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided such remittances do not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical exportation from South Africa of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes and investment. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the Reserve Bank. Approval authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers for exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written declaration 7Subject, however, to the 1994 Debt Arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 461 that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except those to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimba- bwe), subject to a written declaration that the arti- cles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Further- more, after approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including cer- tain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the treasury, within one month of production. With effect from October 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of produc- tion. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles September 1. The indicative annual limit on allow- ances that authorized dealers may provide for trav- eling to countries other than neighboring countries was raised to R 20,000 from R 19,000 for an adult (and to R 10,000 from R 9,500 for a child); the annual limit on additional allowances for business travel was increased to R 30,000 from R 28,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Neth- erlands, and Portugal in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the curren- cies of the other participants within margins of 15 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European currency units (ECUs).1 The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1993, the maximum intervention rates2 were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Spanish Peseta Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 445.4180 Danish kroner 2,408.5000 deutsche mark 9,191 .2000 French francs 2,739.3000 Irish pound 221.5030 Netherlands guilders 8,153.7000 Portuguese escudos 92.8760 330.3420 1,786.2000 6,812.0000 2,031.5000 164.2760 6,047.1000 68.8800 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its. However, in order to ensure a proper function- ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the U.S. dol- lar, and the ECU. 1 Effective August 2, 1993, the intervention thresholds of the currencies participating in the ERM of the EMS, except those of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder, were widened from ±2.25 percent (in the case of Portugal and Spain, 6 percent) to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rates; the fluctuation band of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guil- der remained unchanged at ±2.25 percent. 2 Effective intervention rates may vary within the limits of these maximum intervention rates, depending on daily fluctua- tions in the cross rates between currencies. Official rates for specified currencies3 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. On December 31, 1993, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 114.62 per US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All future transactions involving an identifiable exchange risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indi- rectly from prudential rules on maximum net for- eign exchange exposure. Under existing regulations, consolidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage, determined by the Bank of Spain, of the consolidated own resources of each banking group. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as of July 15,1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including prior verification and remaining administrative authorization corresponding to the exportation and importation of certain means of payment, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish resi- dents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and supervises commercial banks'activities, and is responsible for foreign exchange accounts and all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 463 In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Spain notified the Fund on September 21, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in footnote 3 but are usually made in the currency of the country of ori- gin or destination. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open any kind of deposit account in pesetas or foreign currency in all finan- cial institutions. Residents may open accounts in pesetas or foreign currency with any financial insti- tution abroad. Nonresidents'accounts in Spain and residents' accounts abroad are subject to reporting requirements. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports into Spain may be freely made. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., trac- tors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) must be autho- rized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with dis- tinctions being made among the members of the European Union (EU), those of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Mediterranean and ACP,4 member countries of the General Agreement on Tar- iffs and Trade (GATT), and state trading countries). Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through accounts in domestic and foreign financial institutions or other means of payment, including checks and transfers, subject to certain reporting requirements. The exportation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in bank notes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared and that of more 4 African, Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome- Convention with the EU. than the equivalent of Ptas 5 million requires autho- rization. Nonresident holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, divi- dends, proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights, and the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct invest- ments and rents on nonresident-owned real estate are freely transferable abroad. A general license per- mits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance compa- nies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover exports and imports of goods and related operations. Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by-products) require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade irrespective of destination. Proceeds from Invisibles The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in bank notes, coins, and bearer checks must be declared only when they are intended for investment or banking purposes. All proceeds from invisibles may be used freely. Capital Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines established by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Devel- opment (OECD) that take into account whether effective control over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the investment is at least 10 percent of the company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Foreign investments effected through participation in Span- ish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only when foreign participation exceeds 50 percent and at least one of the following conditions applies: (1) foreign partici- pation exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (2) foreign investors are residents of tax haven countries. Spe- cial authorization is required for non-EU foreign investment in defense-related industries, telecom- munications (over 25 percent of capital), television, radio, air transport, and gambling. Special authori- zation is also required for a foreign government's participation in Spanish companies (other than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SPAIN governments of EU countries) unless otherwise reg- ulated by international treaties. The reinvestment of profits or proceeds from liq- uidation of existing investments is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely purchase any kind of financial assets and contract all types of commercial credit without restriction but must report these transactions to the Bank of Spain. Verification is required before Spanish companies issue shares in foreign markets; otherwise, securities' operations are permitted freely. Real estate investments require prior verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Direct investments abroad by residents are per- mitted freely, although the following exceptions require prior verification: (1) the amount of the investment exceeds Ptas 250 million, (2) the pur- pose of investment is to hold shares of other compa- nies, and (3) investment is in a tax haven country. Residents may purchase freely securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issu- ance) or by residents in a foreign market. Strict information requirements apply to investments in securities and foreign lending. Prior authorization is required for direct investments by residents in non-EU countries where ownership of Spanish real estate or Spanish companies is transferred as a result of the operation. Investments in real estate by residents abroad is permitted, but those that exceed Ptas 250 million require prior verification. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw mate- rials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, depending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 13. The central rate of the peseta against the central rates of the currencies of the countries par- ticipating in the ERM of the EMS was devalued by 8 percent. August 2. The intervention threshold of the Span- ish peseta in the ERM of the EMS was widened from ±6 percent to ±15 percent around the bilateral central exchange rate, which remained unchanged. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of March 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka announces the daily spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, against the Sri Lanka rupee for transactions with the commercial banks, within margins of 1 percent, and purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the established rates. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 49.31 and SL Rs 49.81, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward sales are permitted to cover all transac- tions, with the exception of capital transfers and amortization of loans, up to a period not exceeding 360 days. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transac- tions are freely determined. They may cover such purchases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other autho- rized dealers. Authorized dealers are permitted to quote forward rates for up to 360 days. Sri Lanka formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 15,1994. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as an agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Board of Investments (BOI), formerly the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), has taken over the approval functions of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, which has been abolished, and now handles all applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka. Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the types of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership; approval is automatically granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40 percent, except for a small number of activi- ties reserved for citizens of Sri Lanka or regulated by a special law or organization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from the member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (i.e., Bang- ladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transac- tions must be effected in Asian Currency Units or in the~currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated foreign currencies,1 in Sri Lanka rupees from a non- resident account a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident account a person maintains with an authorized dealer, as approved by the Central Bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subsequent deposits arising from inward remittances, and the debiting for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require prior approval. The opening and redesignating of 1 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 SRI LANKA accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for remittances abroad require exchange control approval under certain circumstances. Accounts in category (4) are desig- nated in the first instance as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected with- out the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require prior approval under certain circumstances. Under cate- gory (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local com- mercial bank without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds, usually owned by nonresidents, repatri- ates, and emigrants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends without prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstanding on March 25, 1991, excluding Sri Lankan citizens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship and Indian and Pakistani expatri- ates, may be remitted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lankan citizens who have acquired permanent resi- dent status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than five years as of June 30,1992, are also permitted to remit their account balances abroad. In all other cases, remittances of up to a max- imum of SLRs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts without prior approval from the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a pro- portion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified pur- poses, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been employed abroad, and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who reside outside Sri Lanka, are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in Sri Lanka in designated foreign curren- cies.2 Sri Lankans may also open such accounts within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with for- eign exchange they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the pro- ceeds of remittances from abroad and foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by indi- viduals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in designated currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely deb- ited without exchange control approval for pay- ments abroad, with the exception of payments received for purchase consideration in respect of the sale of movable or immovable property in Sri Lanka, or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, with exemptions granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Rupee loan facilities for third parties against NRFC balances are also permitted. Employment agencies that recruit Sri Lankan nationals for foreign employment are also allowed to maintain NRFC accounts, to which their commission earnings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish foreign currency banking units. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents, res- ident commercial banks, and any resident BOI enterprise. They may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresi- dent, any resident commercial bank, any resident enterprise having BOI status, any exporter for the purchase of imported inputs, and a few other speci- fied organizations with approval from the Central Bank. In addition, the foreign currency banking units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank. For- eign currency banking units are also authorized to operate savings accounts. However, accounts allowing the withdrawal of funds by checks are not permitted. Sri Lankan residents may open and operate resi- dent foreign currency (RFC) accounts with a mini- mum balance of $500 (or its equivalent) in designated currencies without prior approval or 2 In Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Swed- ish kronor, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 467 documentary evidence of receipt of such funds through customs declarations. Exporters of goods and services who have increased their export earn- ings in foreign exchange over the previous year are permitted to open RFC accounts with up to 5 per- cent of their increased (annual) earning. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those controlled for security rea- sons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equip- ment used in photographic and cinematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatuses; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete cement blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash, including kelp; fer- tilizer; drugs and pharmaceuticals; aircraft, includ- ing spare parts; certain motor cars; certain consumer goods; rice, flour, and wheat grain; and various inor- ganic chemicals and compounds. The tariff regime that was introduced as part of the measures of the 1992 budget (and revised in the 1994 budget) consists of four basic rate categories (45 percent, 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent); exceptions are automobiles (50-100 percent), most textiles and garments (50 percent), cement clinker (5 percent), and certain portland cements in bulk (7.5 percent). Certain essential products are exempted from duties at the discretion of the Minis- try of Finance; these are pharmaceuticals, rice, wheat, flour, and sugar. Specific tariffs are also lev- ied on several items, including locally grown agri- cultural goods (e.g., chili peppers and potatoes), certain petroleum products, and alcoholic bever- ages and spirits. Imports of specified items3 known as "reserved items" are restricted to government or state corpo- rations. Prior approval procedures apply to imports of certain capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the BOI, and certain machinery imports relating to local investment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee. No prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in convertible rupee accounts, which were closed to new credits as of November 16,1977, may use these funds to pay for 3 These include wheat, guns, and explosives, as well as certain chemicals and petroleum products. certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for imports by export processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other imports may be effected only against sight docu- ment against payment term letters of credit valid for shipment for 180 days. Letters of credit on docu- ment against acceptance terms may be opened in respect of imports for export-oriented industries and other high-priority areas for periods ranging from 120 days to 180 days. A stamp duty of 2 per- cent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (excluding inputs used in export industries) not fully covered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Con- troller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $7,000 (c.i.f.), consists of raw materials and spare parts for industries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Imports valued at $5,000 (c.i.f.) or less are permitted on documents against acceptance (D/A) terms without letters of credit when import docu- ments are channelled through commercial banks. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles by residents may be made freely. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their employment con- tract does not exceed three years, and up to one third if the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earnings. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f.o.b., c. & f., or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. Remittances of premium for insurance on exports are not permitted, and such insurance must be obtained from a local state insurance corporation or a private insurance. Remittances of premium to for- eign reinsurers for reinsurance are permitted. Hold- ers of funds in convertible rupee accounts with credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977, may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of partnerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of divi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 SRI LANKA dends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the benefi- ciary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under refer- ence; a computation of the remittable profits; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) certification from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents dividends only for the period to which it relates; (2) certification that the remittance consti- tutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors confirm- ing payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents divi- dends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Controller of Exchange for remit- tance abroad; debits are limited to outward remit- tances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be recon- verted into foreign currency notes and coins only at the exit point (Katunayake Airport/Colombo Port). Reconversion into drafts, telegraphic transfers, or traveler's checks can be made at all branches of the authorized dealers as well as at the exit point. For this purpose, the original encashment receipts or memos issued by the authorized dealers or money changers must be furnished. Sri Lankan and foreign passport holders may take out convertible foreign currency equivalent to $5,000 without declaration, irrespective of the number of trips they make. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding £20 a person (£10 for a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the following products require a license: coral shanks and shells, betel leaves, miner- als and mineral products, metal ores, timber, metal and metal scraps, old vehicles (manufactured before 1945), ivory and ivory products, and fertilizers.5 Exports of betel leaves to Pakistan, Singapore, and the Middle East are handled by three individual firms. The State Gem Corporation exercises quality control over the exportation of gems; the private sec- tor may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments 4 Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5 Effective January 10, 1994, the licensing requirement was abolished except for timber, coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, and old vehicles (manufactured before 1945). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 469 agreements and to exports made to a member coun- try of the ACU. Commercial banks are permitted to grant foreign currency loans from their foreign cur- rency banking units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the pur- pose of executing export orders. This facility is lim- ited to 70 percent of the total value of the confirmed export order. The period of repayment of these loans is eight months. Companies engaged in indirect exports may obtain foreign currency loans for the importation of raw materials on the basis of back-to-back letters of credit opened in foreign currency for receipt of pay- ment in foreign currency, including payments from BOI enterprises. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are not required to be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his/her foreign exchange holdings exceeding $5,000, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of noncon- vertible currencies after making a declaration to customs. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange as approved by the BOI. Pro- ceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in these projects, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100 percent of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain exclusions and limita- tions, without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange through a share investment external rupee account maintained at a commercial bank. Proceeds from the sale of these shares may be repatriated automatically, net of any tax. Blocked funds held by nonresidents with the approval of the Controller of Exchange in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repa- triated in full only with prior approval from the Min- ister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not gener- ally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the country's exports and generate reasonable profits. Resident-owned securities, on which principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency, must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Companies incorpo- rated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved country funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individ- uals, including Sri Lankans residing abroad. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of depar- ture, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by nor- mal direct route plus 20 percent of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign exchange equivalent up to £500 an adult and £250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SLRs 30,000 an adult and SL Rs 15,000 a child under 12 years, plus jewelry up to SL Rs 100,000 for each married woman, SL Rs 60,000 for each unmar- ried woman, SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant under 12years of age, and SLRs25,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 500,000 per individual, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million per family unit. The Depart- ment of Exchange Control may approve the transfer of pensions and interest income up to £100 a month, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in full assets representing their retire- ment funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to trans- fer the capital they originally brought into the coun- try, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Controller of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 SRI LANKA Exchange. Commercial banks may obtain a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports and import gold for sale to the public, subject to pay- ment of duty and turnover tax. Commercial banks are also permitted to import gold on a consignment basis for duty-free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport, with a license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Commercial imports of jewelry and other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for exportation. Changes During 1993 Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 29. Export proceeds were permitted to be credited to foreign currency accounts that do not qualify for tax exemption or amnesty in the domes- tic banking units of commercial banks or they may be retained abroad. Imports and Import Payments January 15. The relaxation on the importation of four-wheeled tractors over five years old was extended up to December 31,1993. February 1. The limit on payment for imports for personal use without opening letters of credit was increased to the equivalent of $3,000 (c.i.f. Colombo) from $2,000. The limit on payments on D/P terms without opening letters of credit for imports for com- mercial purposes was increased to the equivalent of $7,500 (c.i.f. Colombo) from $5,000. February 1. The limit on imports for personal use, raw materials for industry, spare parts for machin- ery (not in commercial quantities) without opening letters of credit was increased to $3,000 c.i.f. Colombo or its equivalent in any foreign currency. February 1. The limit on imports of gold into Sri Lanka on a commercial basis on D/P terms without opening letters of credit was increased to $7,500 provided that the documents are routed through normal banking channels. February 25. Entrepot import transactions on D/P and D /A terms without opening letters of credit were permitted. March 29. Imports on D/A terms with usance let- ters of credit were permitted without restriction. March 29. Authorized dealers were permitted to enter into forward exchange contracts for periods of up to 360 days irrespective of the purpose. April 16. Imports on deferred payment terms with usance letters of credit were permitted with- out restriction. April 28. The facility for settlement of merchan- dise import and invisible transactions with India outside the ACU mechanism was withdrawn. Let- ters of credit may be opened in any other convert- ible foreign currency provided that import bills would be settled on terms of ACU arrangement. June 11. Imports of accessories (including buttons, labels, and lace trimmings) in commercial quanti- ties were exempted from the requirement to open letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles January 15. The amount of foreign exchange granted in respect of travel for holiday, pilgrimage, business and employment purposes, education, medical treatment, exports of personal effects, jew- elry on bring-back basis, gifts, and trade samples was increased by 50 percent over the previous year's limits. January 15. The limits on foreign exchange allow- ance for emigrants, on capital transfers by emi- grants, and on the value of personal jewelry and personal effects emigrants are allowed to export were increased by 50 percent. March 29. The limits on all payments for invisi- bles were removed. Authorized dealers were per- mitted to issue international credit cards and effect such payments. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. The limits on exports of gifts, trade samples, and personal effects and jewelry to be reimported were raised by 50 percent. March 29. The repatriation and surrender require- ments in respect of export proceeds were abolished. The limits on exports of gifts, trade samples, and personal effects and jewelry to be reimported were abolished. June 11. Shipping and freight agents were permit- ted to operate foreign currency accounts with com- missions and profits received from their head offices abroad. Capital January 15. Foreign exchange allowances granted to emigrants at the time of departure were increased. March 29. Foreign exchange allowances granted to emigrants at the time of departure were increased. The remittance of pensions to persons living abroad was permitted without restriction. November 10. The maximum tariff was lowered from 50 percent to 45 percent. The tariff on textiles was reduced from 100 percent to 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 471 Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement March 15. Sri Lanka formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds January 10. The licensing requirement was abol- ished except for timber, coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, and old vehicles (manu- factured before 1945). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Dinar.1 The exchange rate system consists of two exchange rates: the central bank rate and the commercial bank exchange rate. The central bank rate, which is determined by the Bank of Sudan, applies to all export proceeds, compulsory transfers from Sudanese working abroad, and official receipts and payments. The commercial bank rate is determined by the Committee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate of the Union of Banks (Bankers' Association) and is applied to all other transactions. On Decem- ber 31, 1993, the middle central bank and the mid- dle commercial bank rates were Sd 21.5 and Sd 33.2, respectively, per US$1. In the commercial bank exchange market, 27 commercial banks (including 5 specialized banks) are authorized to operate as exchange houses. The Union of Banks, representing all commercial and specialized banks, has delegated to the Committee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate the responsibil- ity for determining the exchange rate. The Commit- tee, which consists of seven bank managers, meets three times a week and announces the exchange rates, taking into account the underlying supply and demand developments in the exchange market over the previous day. All proceeds from exports of goods and ser- vices—invisible receipts from transfers by diplo- matic missions, NGOs, UN agencies, and official foreign exchange receipts of the Bank of Sudan— must be at the central bank rate. In principle, commercial banks are authorized by the Bank of Sudan to sell foreign exchange to be transferred abroad for all purposes. In practice, com- mercial banks conduct informal rationing by making foreign exchange available according to the priorities established by each bank manager. In the case of payments for imports, commercial banks are autho- rized to sell foreign exchange to licensed traders, except for categories of goods that are on the nega- tive list. Under a central bank regulation, the com- mercial banks are obligated to require 100 percent cash cover before agreeing to the sale of foreign exchange. When foreign exchange is made available by a commercial bank against a letter of credit, the l rThe Sudanese pound (LSd) also circulates and has a fixed relationship to the Sudanese dinar (Sd) of LSd 10 = Sd 1. amount is immediately deposited in a suspended account on behalf of the purchaser, while foreign exchange made available on the basis of cash against documents is transferred to the purchaser immedi- ately. Commercial banks do not bear any exchange risk for any foreign exchange transaction. A special accounting exchange rate of 2.5 clearing U.S. dollars per US$1 is applied to all trade with Egypt under a trade and payments agreement. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks and specialized banks acting as exchange houses. Commercial banks and specialized banks may effect payments from their foreign exchange accounts without verification by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Bank of Sudan. Authorized banks are prohibited from conducting foreign exchange transactions with any public body and from disposing of bal- ances in foreign currency accounts held by such bodies in domestic banks without prior approval from the Bank of Sudan. Commercial banks are responsible for verifying that exports and imports under the trade protocol with Egypt are in accor- dance with licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. The issuance of commercial certificates is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply. The Bank of Sudan, the Taxa- tion Department, and the Zakat Chamber have the authority to request any information or details from authorized banks. All exporters and importers are required to register with the Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment—and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free foreign currency account or special foreign cur- rency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and withdrawals from duty-free shop accounts, and (4) transfers to airline companies' accounts. SUDAN 473 Sudanese nationals are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts.2 Free accounts may be credited with any means of payment after the source is declared. Free accounts may be debited only for (1) transfers abroad; (2) withdrawals (in the form of traveler's or cashier's checks or cash) for travel abroad by the account holder and his family after verification of fulfillment of travel requirements; (3) payments made in cash or bank checks to the Duty-Free Shop Corporation; (4) payment of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency (for nonresident Sudanese nationals only); and (5) purchase of Sudanese pounds at the official rate. Any transfer from a free account is exempt from a simultaneous purchase and sale arrangement as long as the transfer is for (l)-(4) above. Diplomatic and foreign missions and organiza- tions, international and regional organizations, vol- untary and charitable foreign organizations, foreign companies and their branches, foreign constructors and subconstructors, and employees of these orga- nizations are allowed to open special accounts with authorized banks in foreign and local currency. Special foreign exchange accounts may be cred- ited with transfers from abroad for the organiza- tions' accounts and with the salaries for the employees' accounts. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, with- drawals for the purpose of travel by the account holder or his family, and local payments in Sudanese pounds, with conversion to Sudanese currency made at the central bank window rate. Airline companies are allowed to open foreign currency accounts without approval from the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be credited with payments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. Transfers between foreign currency accounts within the country are prohibited, except for (1) transfers between free accounts, (2) transfers from specified organizations' special foreign currency accounts to their employees' special foreign currency accounts to make salary payments,3 (3) deposits to 2 Commercial banks must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Sudan before opening any new accounts for public bodies. 3 These organizations are the Arab Agricultural Investment and Development Corporation and the companies belonging to it, Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, Arab Authority for Investment and Agricultural Development, Arab Sugar Association, Khartoum International Institute for Arabic Language, Arab Center for Social Security, international organi- zations, embassies, and foreign companies. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import licenses are not required, except for goods imported through bilateral and preferential trade arrange- ments. All applications for the importation of goods (except crude oil and petroleum products) not included on the negative list must be channeled through the commercial or specialized banks and must be accompanied by the following: (1) a pro forma invoice; (2) a valid commercial registration certificate (issued annually by the Ministry of Com- merce) that verifies that the importer is a trader; (3) a valid tax clearance certificate; and (4) the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain catego- ries of goods (drugs, medical tools and equipment, and medical needs (Ministry of Health)); veterinary medicines and veterinary needs (Ministry of Agri- culture and Veterinary Resources); food (Ministry of Health); seeds (Ministry of Agriculture); ammu- nition and explosives (Ministry of Interior); airport needs (Civil Aviation Security); communications— telephone, facsimile, and telex—equipment (Secu- rity Telecommunication Corporation); insecticides and fertilizer (Ministry of Agriculture); inputs used by the chicken and dairy industries (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); irrigation pumps (Ministry of Irrigation); and agricultural sprayers (Ministry of Agriculture). The negative list of imports includes passenger cars; trucks and vans, excluding trucks of more than 3 tons and buses with a capacity of 15 or more passengers; refrigerators; VCRs; TVs; gambling equipment; mineral and carbonated water; carpets; canned food, except tomato paste; confectionery; hides and footwear, except artificial leather; soap; fruit and vegetables; domestic utensils; plastic flow- ers; air-conditioning units and coolers; furniture and ready-made doors and windows; textiles and ready-made garments; livestock and meat, except livestock for crossbreeding; broilers and eggs, except one-day-old chicks and fertilized eggs; sugar; alcoholic beverages; and arms and ammuni- tion, except with special permits.4 The ban on imports of passenger cars, trucks, and vans is speci- fied to be a one-year period with effect from April 30, 1993. The Free Trade Zone Authority was per- 4 With the authorization of the Ministry of Trade, clothing fac- tories are permitted to import textiles, and hotels and the Duty-Free Corporation are permitted to import some of the goods on the negative import list. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 SUDAN mitted to authorize exemptions to the ban on importation of these products for diplomats, aid organizations, and privileged persons under the Constitution. In principle, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to finance all imports (except those on the negative list) irrespective of their final use. Authorized banks are also allowed to provide import credit facilities for imports of specified capi- tal goods by means of sight credit or documents against acceptance, provided that maturity is no less than two years and repayments do not begin until one year after the arrival of the goods.5 Autho- rized banks are required to obtain from importers a deposit of 10 percent in foreign currency at least one month before the importers receive the ship- ping documents; the remaining foreign exchange may be provided when the shipping documents are received. Commercial banks are authorized to finance on credit imports of capital goods (pro- vided that the credit agreement provides for a grace period of at least one year) and of wheat and flour. Commercial and specialized banks are required to furnish the Bank of Sudan with the following information every two weeks: applicant's name, goods to be imported and their value, terms of pay- ment, approval number, commercial registration number, and tax clearance number. Authorized banks, when filing import applications, are required to provide the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply with information on the type and quantity of commodities every two weeks. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Imports financed at the commercial market rate, including those financed through the opening of letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit of up to the full c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are restricted. Commer- cial banks are authorized to transfer up to 50 per- cent of net salaries of foreign consultants, provided that the following documents are submitted: evi- dence of work permit, certificate showing net basic salary, and certificate showing no tax obligation. On this basis, up to 50 percent of net salaries may be remitted abroad. The amount of foreign currency that Sudanese leaving Sudan are allowed to carry is 5 These goods include agricultural equipment, such as tractors and harvesters; all means of transportation, excluding sedans; mining equipment; all kinds of industrial and service equipment; and road, irrigation, building, and construction equipment. limited to a maximum of $5,000, with documentary proof of source of foreign exchange. In addition, in practice, sales of foreign exchange for invisible pay- ments differ among commercial and specialized banks owing to the informal rationing procedures established by each bank. Under the current prac- tice, most commercial banks provide a nominal amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad after travel verification is obtained. When foreign exchange is in short supply, business travel is favored over vacation travel. For medical treatment abroad, a commensurate amount of foreign exchange is provided after the applicant has obtained certification from the medical committee. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited, as is the exporta- tion of hides and skins.6 Export licenses are not required for any category of exports (except for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and on account of barter trade). However, all exporters must submit export contracts and the "EX" export form to commercial or specialized banks for approval. Copies of these contracts must also be submitted to the Bank of Sudan. Indicative export prices are set by a committee consisting of the Min- ister of Commerce, the Governor of the Bank of Sudan, three private sector exporters, and the man- ager of a commercial bank. When export prices diverge significantly from indicative prices, the per- mission of the committee must be obtained before shipment. All export proceeds, except those permitted to be retained under the Export Enhancement Scheme, must be repatriated to the domestic banking system and surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the central bank exchange rate. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered to the Bank of Sudan within 45 days of the date of the bill of lading. When the terms of pay- ment are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on deliv- ery of the shipping documents; otherwise, a surren- der date is usually specified up to a maximum of three months. Export taxes are levied on all categories of goods (except exports under bilateral protocol arrange- ments and under barter trade). The tax is collected by customs and deposited in its account at the Bank of Sudan. The applicable tax rates are 10 percent on cotton and gum arabic, and 5 percent on other exports. 6 On July 26,1993, reptile skins were exempted until January 16, 1994 from the prohibition on exports of hides and skins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 475 Major export goods (including sorghum, oil seeds, edible oil, cattle and camels, meat, hides and skins, melon seeds, copper, scrap iron, brass, chromite, mutton, gum arabic, Egyptian and green beans, green cumin, dehydrated limes, and fruit and vegetables) are subject to minimum export prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in foreign currencies without restriction and may export any amounts of Sudanese currency. Residents and nonresidents entering Sudan must declare their holdings of for- eign currency and re-export them within three months, after which foreign exchange must be sur- rendered to the banking system either for deposits in free foreign exchange accounts or for conversion into local currency. Commercial banks are prohib- ited from accepting foreign currencies without valid declaration forms. Shipping agencies are permitted to accept foreign currency in payment for any services; however, they are required to sell all the foreign currency pro- ceeds to authorized banks on the day following their receipt at the central bank exchange rate. Sales of tickets and freight services in foreign cur- rencies by airline companies in Sudan are restricted to (1) foreign tourists and businessmen; (2) foreign- ers working with diplomatic missions and organi- zations and international, regional, and national organizations; (3) foreigners employed by foreign relief, charitable, and religious organizations; and (4) foreigners working with foreign companies and branches of companies operating in the fields of contracting, investment, and prospecting for petro- leum and minerals. Airline companies are allowed to receive payments for tickets and freight services in foreign currency on condition that payments are made in the form of deposits to their foreign cur- rency accounts. Sales in foreign exchange deposited in the foreign currency accounts may be remitted to the company's head office after being approved by the Civil Aviation Authority. Capital Public sector capital transactions (including debt-service payments) are effected at the central bank exchange rate. All incoming private sector for- eign capital, including bank capital, is converted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Foreign direct investments are permitted in accordance with existing laws and regulations. Repatriation of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to cer- tification from the Bank of Sudan regarding the original value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Repatriation of equity shares requires certifi- cation of liquidation and tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement October 16. A dual exchange rate system, consist- ing of a central bank rate and a commercial bank exchange rate, was introduced. The central bank rate was set at Sd 21.5 per US$1, and the commer- cial bank rate was set at Sd 30.3 per US$1. The cen- tral bank rate would apply to all exports and official receipts and payments, and all other transactions would take place at the commercial bank rate. Administration of Control April 27. Authorized banks were prohibited from conducting foreign exchange transactions with any public body without prior approval from the Bank of Sudan. This prohibition extended to the disposal of balances in foreign currency accounts held by such bodies in domestic banks. April 27. All exporters and importers were required to register with the Ministry of Trade. May 8. The responsibility for verifying that exports and imports under the trade protocol with Egypt were in accordance with licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade was transferred to commercial banks from the Bank of Sudan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 SUDAN Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts July 3. Commercial banks were required to report to the Bank of Sudan foreign exchange balances of public bodies held in free foreign currency accounts as of July 6,1993. Commercial banks were required to obtain approval from the Bank of Sudan before opening any new accounts for public bodies. Imports and Import Payments April 27. The following products were added to the negative list of imports: passenger cars; trucks and vans, excluding trucks more than 3 tons and buses with a capacity of 15 or more passengers; refrigerators; VCRs; and TVs. Commercial banks were prohibited from earmarking foreign exchange they purchased for import-financing purposes. May 1. It was announced that the ban on imports of passenger cars, trucks, and vans would be for a period of one year from April 30, 1993. The Free Trade Zone Authority was permitted to authorize exemptions to the ban on the importation of these products for diplomats, aid organizations, and privileged persons under the Constitution. June 12. Amendments were made to the regula- tions governing payments for imports and related margins and commissions. Commercial banks were authorized to finance imports using foreign exchange purchased from customers. Payments for such imports would be against presentation of doc- uments. Authorized banks were required to obtain from importers a 10 percent margin, paid in foreign currency at least one month before the receipt of shipping documents. The remaining foreign cur- rency would be provided on receipt of shipping documents. Commercial banks were required to surrender to the Bank of Sudan 50 percent of any foreign exchange purchased under these arrange- ments. Commercial banks were also authorized to finance on credit imports of capital goods (pro- vided that the credit agreement provides for a grace period of at least one year) and of wheat, flour, gas- oline, kerosene, and aviation fuel (provided that the grace period would be at least six months).The fol- lowing products were added to the negative import list: gambling equipment; mineral and carbonated water; carpets; canned food, except tomato paste; confectionery; hides and footwear, except artificial leather; soap; fruit and vegetables; domestic uten- sils; plastic flowers; air-conditioning units and cool- ers; furniture and ready-made doors and windows. June 26. With the authorization of the Ministry of Trade, clothing factories were permitted to import textiles. June 27. With the authorization of the Ministry of Trade, hotels were permitted to import some of the goods on the negative import list. July 21. The surrender requirement applicable to foreign currency purchased by commercial banks to finance import transactions of customers was reduced to 10 percent from 50 percent, except for the following products, which were exempted from any surrender requirement: yeast, tea, soap manufacturing inputs, vegetable oils, rice, wheat, flour, school materials, and medication and pharmaceutical inputs. July 21. The Duty-Free Corporation was autho- rized to import goods on the negative import list, except alcohol, sugar, arms, and gambling items. Payments for Invisibles April 1. Commercial banks were permitted to transfer up to 50 percent of net salaries of foreign consultants, provided that the following documents are properly submitted: evidence of a work permit, a certificate showing net basic salary, and a certifi- cate showing that no taxes are owing. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The surrender requirement ratio for export proceeds for products other than cotton and gum arabic was raised to 75 percent from 50 percent. May 16. The exportation of hides and skins was prohibited. June 11. The surrender requirement ratio for export proceeds for products other than cotton and gum arabic was lowered from 75 percent to 45 percent. June 12. Minimum export prices were established for the following products: copper, scrap iron, brass, chromite, mutton, gum arabic, Egyptian and green beans, green cumin, dehydrated limes, and fruit and vegetables. June 22. The minimum export price applicable to Egyptian beans was reduced from $400 per metric ton to $200 per metric ton. July 25. The minimum export price applicable to sorghum beans was set at $120 per metric ton. July 26. Reptile skins were exempted from the prohibition on exports of hides and skins until Jan- uary 16,1994. October 23. The ratio of surrender requirement was raised to 100 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles November 1. Residents and nonresidents entering Sudan were required to declare their holdings of for- eign currency and re-export them within three months, after which foreign exchange must be surren- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 477 dered to the banking system either to be deposited in free foreign exchange accounts or to be converted into local currency. Commercial banks were prohibited from accepting foreign currencies without valid decla- ration forms. The amount of foreign currency that Sudanese leaving Sudan are allowed to carry was lim- ited to a maximum of $5,000; proof of source of for- eign exchange must be provided. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guil- der. The exchange rate system consists of the fol- lowing six rates: (1) the official exchange rate of Sf 1.785 per US$1 applies to the servicing of official and officially guaranteed debt; (2) a bauxite rate of Sf 8.0 per US$1 applies to foreign exchange surren- dered by the two bauxite companies for local expenses, imports of basic consumer goods, imports of the health and education sectors, and transactions of the public utilities; (3) a fuel rate of Sf 20.0 per US$1 applies to imports of gasoline and diesel fuel; (4) an auction rate determined at the most recent auction applies to certain stipulated imports of the productive sectors, aid received under the 1975 Development Treaty with the Neth- erlands, and foreign exchange sold by tourists; (5) a special rate applies to all foreign transactions of the rice sector; and (6) a free market rate is determined in the official free market in which six commercial banks and five nonbank cambios participate (this rate is applied to all other transactions). Commercial banks and exchange houses are allowed to operate in the interbank market. One percent is charged on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 2 percent on sales of foreign exchange and 9.25 percent on transfers. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29,1978. approved by the Central Bank, but the release of foreign exchange for all external payments is approved by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with other ministries. In principle, imports of medi- cal supplies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licens- ing system, but the full basis for allocation is not published. The Central Bank is empowered to pro- vide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Exter- nal payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not per- mitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Commercial banks may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of for- eign loans must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suri- name and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.2 Administration of Control Resident and Nonresident Accounts All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.1 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activi- ties in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suri- name guilders with domestic banks; certain debits 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 479 and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident for- eign currency accounts may not be credited with Surinamese tender. Resident nonbanks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname or from exports. Balances in for- eign currency accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely, except for travel; use of these accounts and foreign assets for travel is lim- ited to Sf 1,500 a person a year. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of some commodities are prohibited,3 and imports of another group of commodities are sub- ject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11,1982.4 3 The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vegetables (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted cof- fee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and marmalade (exclud- ing those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonpro- cessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for con- struction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plas- tic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 4 The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fruits and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaf- feinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain pre- served vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and furniture (excluding those for business establishments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 2.0 percent are levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a month for each item on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth) as well as for adver- tising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 1,500 a person a calendar year. The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, and the pur- chase of exchange for travel is not permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an individual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for the amortization of loans or depreciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Commis- sion for verification. These payments are tempo- rarily suspended. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The exportation of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad and exporters undertake to sur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 480 SURINAME render the foreign currency proceeds to the Central Bank within 30 days. The Ministry of Economic Affairs ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Hus- bandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regu- lations. Certain export companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Commission to maintain current accounts in for- eign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of the f.o.b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0 percent of their f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their possession on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency in their possession. The amount that nonresi- dents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Commission provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The deci- sion covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 percent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Commission may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subse- quently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earn- ings in Suriname accrued during his period of resi- dence. If his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under excep- tional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries5 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Trans- fers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires the prior approval of the Foreign Exchange Commission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Cen- tral Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.6 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to bal- ances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 6 This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 481 Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Commission by sale to the Cen- tral Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permit- ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with face values of S f lOO, Sf200, and Sf 250—are legal tender. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; autho- rized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Commission; licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a sta- tistical fee of 2.0 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The bauxite rate of Sf 8.0 per US$1 was introduced. It would apply to foreign exchange sur- rendered by the two bauxite companies for pay- ments of local expenses. June 1. A new resolution modifying the multiple exchange rate regime was introduced. The exchange rate regime would consist of the following six rates: (1) an official rate of Sf 1.785 per US$1 would apply to the servicing of official and officially guaranteed debt and the receipts of exports from before October 2, 1992; (2) a bauxite rate of Sf 8.0 per US$1 would apply to foreign exchange surrendered by the two bauxite companies for local expenses, imports of basic consumer goods, imports of the health and education sectors, and transactions of the public util- ities; (3) a fuel rate of Sf 20.0 per US$1 would apply to imports of gasoline and diesel fuel; (4) an auction rate, determined at the most recent auction of bal- ance of payments support from the Netherlands would apply to certain stipulated imports of the pro- ductive sectors, the export proceeds from exports of banana, shrimp, and oil sectors between October 1992 and July 1993, aid received under the 1975 Development Treaty with the Netherlands, and for- eign exchange sold by tourists; (5) a special rate would apply to all foreign transactions of the rice sector; and (6) a free market rate determined in the free market in which six commercial banks and five nonbank cambios participate would apply to all other transactions. The legislation also removed the exchange surrender requirement for most exports, and authorized foreign exchange dealing by cambios as well as by commercial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plu- ral Emalangeni), which is pegged to the South Afri- can rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swazi- land (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African commercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the closing buying and selling rates were E 3.397 and E 3.398, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Cana- dian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dol- lar, and for the European currency unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the clearinghouse operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11,1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), a single exchange control territory compris- ing Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not con- trolled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa but has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resident of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa, and no import restric- tions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with spe- cific import regulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized dealers. The basic exchange allow- ances for tourist travel are E 19,000 for each adult, and E 9,500 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 1,800 a person a day, not exceeding E 28,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. Residents traveling to the member 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 483 countries of the PTA must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTAs). To use credit cards outside the CM A, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatria- tion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nomi- nee for a nonresident, without prior approval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the CBS to allow some nonresidents to invest in specific projects in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism by acquiring shares in new companies and by purchas- ing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to investments involving the establishment or expan- sion of manufacturing enterprises, subject to evi- dence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds provided through financial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capi- tal are considered on their merits. Blocked emalan- geni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. The Swedish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and for- ward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Sveriges Riksbank, however, has the discretionary power to intervene in the exchange market. On December 31,1993, the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Skr 8.3375 and Skr 8.3395, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or forward, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swed- ish kronor credited (debited) to a krona account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, options) in individual foreign currencies and on the total net position in all foreign currencies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net posi- tion is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is a recognized market maker, the limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may incur foreign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply. This enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to resi- dents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely per- mitted. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all liability positions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and to 30 per- cent for recognized market makers. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. All current and capital transactions are free from exchange control. When required, import and export licenses are issued by the National Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Sweden notified the Fund on August 7, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an external krona account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External krona accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Belarus, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, the Czech Republic, Hun- gary, Kazakhstan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, and Ukraine. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, except from the members of the European Union (EU) and the Euro- pean Free Trade Association (EFIA), are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. With a few exceptions, imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 485 Payments for imports may be made freely. Importers are also permitted to accept foreign sup- pliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made by resi- dents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restriction. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be acquired freely. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coins without limitation. While abroad, residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other exports, with the exception of scrap metal to coun- tries other than the member countries of the EU and the EFTA, are free from license. With a few excep- tions, exports to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), are prohib- ited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each per- son entering Sweden may bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coins, and other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free from restriction. For tax control and statistical purposes, however, residents depositing funds in foreign bank accounts or transacting through such an account must report the amount to the Swedish National Tax Board and to the Riksbank. Transactions in securities may be carried out freely. Foreign securities held by indi- viduals must be deposited with an authorized cur- rency dealer who is a securities broker or a broker who has received special approval from the Riks- bank or a similar foreign institution. Investments in South Africa are prohibited. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control January 1. The requirement that all current trans- actions must be conducted through authorized cur- rency dealers was abolished. September 1. The prohibition of trade with South Africa was lifted. Capital January 1. The following requirements were abol- ished: (1) that all capital transactions must be con- ducted through authorized currency dealers, (2) that all foreign securities must be purchased or sold through a security trading institution or a cur- rency trader that has special approval from the Riksbank, and (3) that foreign securities must be deposited with a currency trader that has special approval from the Riksbank. The prohibition on depositing funds in accounts with foreign banks or transacting through these accounts was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when cir- cumstances warrant. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.4795 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commercial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premiums and dis- count rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a for- eign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal Department of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capital export transactions of financial institutions, however, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital, below). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14,1952, Switzerland notified the Fund, on September 1,1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of Haiti, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Restrictions have also been imposed on pay- ments and transfers to Iraq, Haiti, and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya in accordance with relevant UN Security Council Resolutions. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any cur- rency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is a state monopoly. The most important commodities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, within the global quotas established for certain agricultural products. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unre- stricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including the re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons, dual-used goods and scrap metal, is controlled through individual licenses. This export-licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private organizations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. 486 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 487 Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formal- ity, except that foreign bond issues in Switzerland amounting to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more require permission from the Swiss National Bank. In prac- tice, this requirement is administered very liberally. Foreign institutions are allowed to participate in syndicated Swiss franc security issues, provided that the lead manager is domiciled in Switzerland. For direct bank participations or subscriptions by Swiss banks in issues and bank credits (exceeding Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months) abroad, the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unre- stricted. Selected banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and for- ward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or residing abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is sit- uated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal Government. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of the following four rates: (1) the official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to government transactions, public sector exports of petroleum, and certain agricul- tural products; and on the payments side, to gov- ernment transactions, public sector imports of certain agricultural products, and public sector invisibles payments; (2) the "rate in neighboring countries" of LS 42/43 per US$1, which is deter- mined by the Central Bank and the Commercial Bank of Syria; it applies, on the receipts side, to all public and private capital inflows, receipts from tourists, 25 percent of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75 percent of export proceeds retained by private sector exporters that is not used to finance their own imports or others; and on the payments side, to travel allowances, tourism and medical expenses, some student allowances, and remittances abroad and payments by the public sector approved by the Committee for Foreign Exchange; (3) the airline rate of LS 40/42 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to purchases of airline tickets by nonresidents; and on the payments side, to transfers abroad by airline companies; and (4) the promotion rate of LS 20/22 per US$1 which is used only for payments of allow- ances to students who started overseas study before January 1, 1991. Buying and selling rates for other major currencies are quoted on the basis of the offi- cial rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies con- cerned in markets abroad.1 There is also a rate of LS 23 per US$1 used for the valuation of imports with customs duties equal to or exceeding 75 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Ministry of Economy and For- 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Leb- anese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. eign Trade. Under an agreement between the Cen- tral Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transac- tions by the Exchange Office. Only the Central Bank and the Commercial Bank of Syria may deal in for- eign exchange. The Commercial Bank of Syria opens letters of credit and accepts bills for collec- tion without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies that can be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of cur- rency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian Federation, and Sri Lanka. How- ever, the agreements with the Russian Federation and Sri Lanka are inoperative, and settlements for imports from these countries must be made in con- vertible currencies. Imports from the Islamic Republic of Iran may be paid for in either convert- ible or nonconvertible currencies. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies nonresidents sell to the Commercial Bank of Syria and with other receipts. These accounts may be debited without prior approval with payments to Syrian exporters for exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents (individuals and corpora- tions) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad with- out restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 489 Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their staffs. Diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the official rate and may keep the remaining 50 percent on deposit in foreign exchange with the Commercial Bank of Syria or convert it into Syrian pounds at the "rate in neighboring countries/' The debiting for expendi- tures in the Syrian Arab Republic and abroad is free. Residents not involved in export activities and wishing to open foreign currency accounts are required to present written evidence that they have sources of income from abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodi- ties (including paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain private sector importers. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. The list of items that the private sector is permitted to import includes certain agricultural goods, indus- trial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come directly from the country of ori- gin, without the intervention of any foreign firm. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports valued at LS 2,000 or more (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, which the importer must obtain before the date the goods are shipped. A fee ranging from LS 25 to LS 200 is charged for import licenses. Import tariffs range from zero to 200 percent. In addition, an import sur- charge (called a "license fee") of 2 percent is levied on all imports except those by the Government and certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. Special import surcharges ranging from 6 percent to 35 percent are also levied. Private importers pay customs duties on the basis of the official exchange rate. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from the licensing requirement, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agree- ment; authorization to import these products is granted in response to a written request. Opera- tions of the state trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. State agencies submit documentation of their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade and automatically receive import licenses. Payments for imports by the Government are effected at the offi- cial market rate and imports by public sector enter- prises at the rate in neighboring countries. In principle, private sector importers are authorized to import products on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. In practice, foreign exchange is not made available and such importers must use their own resources. There are currently five avenues available to private sector importers to finance imports: (1) external credit arrangements, including suppliers' credits of up to 180 days' maturity and third-party financing; (2) foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by nonresidents; (3) importers' own foreign exchange deposits maintained abroad; (4) foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the regulations governing retention of export pro- ceeds; and (5) foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed-sector enterprises2 through accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, up to a limit of US$2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Leba- non) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip, for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for a foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this exception, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, 2 Mixed-sector enterprises are enterprises with at least 25 percent public participation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign country may take with them the entire amount of the allocations on producing proof that they have transferred for- eign exchange from abroad; otherwise they may take with them only foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations. For travel to countries with which payments agree- ments are maintained, 50 percent of the travel allo- cation must be handled through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nation- ality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if trav- eling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 will be added to this tax. A maximum of 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic and of 50 percent of the sala- ries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and interna- tional missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred abroad. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Administration Commit- tee of the Exchange Office, with the exception of embassies and international organizations, which must convert 50 percent of their transfers at the offi- cial rate and the remaining 50 percent at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresidents leaving the country are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. The allowance for education abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Higher Education. The transfer of funds abroad for family maintenance is limited to LS 250 a transfer and is effected when proof of need is presented. The allowance for medical treatment must be autho- rized by the Ministry of Health. Remittances of profits from investments must be authorized by the Administration Committee of the Exchange Office upon presentation of supporting documents (e.g., a balance sheet or certificate confirming payment of income tax), except for profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the 1991 Investment Law (see below), which can be repatriated freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports under bilateral payments agreements and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatria- tion commitment is required, by which the exporter undertakes to repatriate and surrender the pro- ceeds to the Commercial Bank of Syria within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds of exports retained by private and mixed exporters may be used to import goods on a list issued by the Ministry of Economy or may be sold to other pri- vate or mixed-sector enterprises through accounts held at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may sell the pro- ceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. Export- ers of most products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export proceeds to finance imports on a permitted list, even if the products to be imported are not directly related to their export- ing activity. They may also import on behalf of pub- lic sector entities and some other private sector activities. Most private sector exporters are thus required to surrender to the Commercial Bank of Syria only 25 percent of their proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries, and the remaining 75 per- cent can be deposited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in specially earmarked foreign currency accounts until import payments are made or for- eign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fruits and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the proceeds at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. Private sector firms exporting to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments arrangements are required first to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies to import raw materials and spare parts for their own production activity. The retained export proceeds may be deposited in a special export exchange account denominated in foreign currency with the Commercial Bank of Syria or may be surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 491 without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Sub- sidies for exports of ginned cotton from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Prod- ucts have been suspended. A tax ranging from 9 percent to 12 percent ad valorem is charged on the value of exports of agricultural origin, except fruits and vegetables (which are exempt) and cotton (for which the export tax is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports (f.o.b.) less the cost of transportation within the Syrian Arab Republic). Exports of other agricultural commodities are subject to an ad valo- rem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be converted at the official rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to bring in up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign exchange in any form without declaring it and may freely bring in Syrian bank notes. Residents may freely bring in for- eign and Syrian bank notes. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organi- zations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. All Syrians working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their profession, but are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between $500 and $7,000) if they surrender equiva- lent funds at the rate in neighboring countries. Syr- ian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and con- vert, at the rate in neighboring countries, a mini- mum of 25 percent of their annual salaries and the allowances they receive in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by both the public and private sectors take place at the rate in neighboring countries. The exportation of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Syria provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states, including a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Under the 1991 Investment Law (Law No. 10), projects with minimum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the High Council for Investment (HCI) benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations; imports of necessary machin- ery, equipment, and vehicles for these projects are exempt from customs duties. Mixed-sector enter- prises enjoy seven years of exemption from all taxes, while private companies are exempted from tax pay- ments for five years; these periods may be extended by two years if the project exports at least 50 percent of output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial Bank of Syria to finance hard currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75 percent of foreign currency exports. Funds from these accounts may be provided on demand and may be used to compensate foreign staff. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after five years from the date of investment, and capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers due to events beyond the investor's control. All profits may be transferred freely. Foreign staff employed in joint ventures are entitled to trans- fer abroad 50 percent of salaries and 100 percent of their severance pay. The Syrian Arab Republic has signed investment guarantee agreements with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Nonresidents other than Arab nationals may acquire immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresi- dents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of man- ufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 13. The airline rate was changed from LS 30/33 per US$1 to LS 36/40 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC February 20. Foreign firms, with the exception of oil companies, were permitted to apply the rate in neigh- boring countries instead of the official exchange rate to their local expenses and payments of their obliga- tions denominated in foreign currencies, provided that their annual revenues do not fall below the aver- age for the preceding three years and provided that a different exchange rate is not specified in their con- tracts with the state and public sector institutions. May 10. The rate in neighboring countries was applied to all foreign loans and grants in the fiscal budget for 1993. The neighboring countries' rate would be applied to foreign grants in the fiscal bud- gets for the years 1991 and 1992. June 10. The airline rate was changed from LS 36/ 40 per US$1 to LS 40/42 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments July 5. Authorized imports from the Syrian free zones may be paid for through the Commercial Bank of Syria using invoices against funds previ- ously set aside for that purpose, in addition to let- ters of credit. Exports and Export Proceeds January 4. The exemption of fresh and dried fruits and vegetables from the agricultural tax was extended to the end of 1993. July 26. Imports of inputs used in the production of goods for export were allowed to benefit from import funding facilities provided under agreement with the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab Economic Development. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Tajikistan is the Ruble.2 The exchange rate system consists of two rates. There is no organized interbank foreign exchange market, but commercial banks are free to trade in foreign exchange, and the rates quoted by commercial banks are based on supply and demand conditions. A separate official accounting exchange rate of 1.7562 rubles per US$1 is used for the valua- tion of foreign exchange reserves. The spread between buying and selling rates of the commercial banks is regulated by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan and may not exceed 10 percent. In December 1993, the average commercial bank exchange rate ranged from Rub 4,688 to Rub 5,360 per US$1. Administration of Control Regulations and procedures for foreign exchange and ruble transactions between residents and non- residents were temporarily established by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan in March 1993. The Ministry of Finance has responsi- bility for handling financial relations between Tajikistan and foreign countries, and the Vneshek- onombank is its agent and the depository of the Foreign Currency Fund. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Residents of Tajikistan may make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency as well as in rubles, but major transactions are authorized and monitored by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan. Commercial banks authorized by the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan may use their correspondent accounts for commercial transactions with the states of the former U.S.S.R. Most enterprises arrange commer- cial transactions on a barter basis.3 lcThe Republic of Tajikistan became a member of the IMF on April 27,1993. ^ Since January 8,1994, the post-1993 Russian rubles are the cash in circulation, and Tajik rubles are the noncash in circulation. 3 Tajikistan maintains bilateral trade agreements with all of the states of the former U.S.S.R. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents (natural or juridical persons) may open foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with authorization from the National Bank of the Repub- lic of Tajikistan and foreign currency accounts with licensed banks in Tajikistan without coordinating with or notifying the services of the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan; the source of foreign exchange need not be revealed. Foreign exchange held in these accounts may be transferred to resi- dents' bank accounts abroad opened according to established procedure. Emigrants may transfer for- eign exchange and rubles abroad from their domes- tic accounts. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency bank notes that residents may pur- chase with rubles from licensed foreign exchange dealers. They may place these amounts in a foreign exchange account or use them for transactions with nonresidents. Nonresident individuals may open foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks and may transfer balances on these accounts abroad or convert them into rubles. Foreign governments, institutions, and enterprises may open accounts in rubles with domestic banks with the authorization of the National Bank of the Republic of Tajikistan and may use the balances for domestic transactions. Imports and Exports Payments for imports may be made in accor- dance with normal commercial practices, but most trade is bartered. Foreign exchange may be pur- chased from commercial banks at market rates or drawn from a domestic foreign exchange account. Imports are largely free of restrictions, including tariffs or quotas, with the exception of firearms and narcotics, the importation of which is prohibited. All exports require licenses. All exports are sub- ject to a system of state order and quota. Exports are subject to tariffs, ranging from 5 percent to 1,000 percent of their ruble value; specific tariffs, ranging from $10 to $25,000 are levied on exports sold for convertible currency. Seventy percent of the proceeds from main exports (including cotton and aluminum) received in convertible currency must be surrendered to the Republican Foreign Exchange Fund for rubles at the exchange rate of the Moscow Interbank Currency 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TAJIKISTAN Exchange prevailing on the day the proceeds are paid to exporters'accounts; 100 percent of the pro- ceeds from cotton and aluminum must be surren- dered. All other exports are subject to the surrender requirement of 30 percent. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be transferred to autho- rized banks within 30 days of receipt. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes are granted an allowance of $400 a person a year. Foreign exchange needed for public or private busi- ness or other travel (e.g., education) are also subject to limits, which vary according to destination. Min- imum spending or conversion requirements for nonresident travelers do not exist. Nonresidents from outside the states of the former U.S.S.R. must pay for transportation and hotel services in convert- ible currencies. Capital Inward and outward capital transactions require licenses issued by the National Bank of the Repub- lic of Tajikistan. There are no limits on inward capi- tal transactions. Foreign investors are required to register with the Ministry of Finance. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of foreign direct investment or profits. Profits may be reinvested in Tajikistan, held in banks in rubles or foreign cur- rency, or transferred abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of February 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling. The Bank of Tanzania holds a weekly auction of for- eign exchange at which foreign exchange is sold to foreign exchange bureaus and commercial banks. The weighted average of bids emerging from the auction is the official rate.1 On December 31, 1993, the middle rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, was TSh 479.87 per US$1. The exchange rate for other currencies2 is determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in international markets. Certain transactions may be effected through foreign exchange bureaus that are autho- rized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. The Bank of Tanzania does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. However, autho- rized dealers may, at their discretion, enter into for- ward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated authority to administer exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In October 1993, the Bank of Tanzania dele- gated authority to make payments abroad to the five authorized banks—the National Bank of Com- merce, the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, the People's Bank of Zanzibar, the Meridien Bank, the Standard Chartered Bank, and authorized foreign exchange bureaus; control over exchange operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through its Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by lrThe interbank market for foreign exchange replaced the for- eign exchange auction system on June 20,1994. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho mal- oti, Malawian kwacha, Mozambican meticais, Mauritian rupees, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zimba- bwe dollars. the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a convertible nonresident account. Tanzania maintains bilateral payments agreements with Burundi, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are those maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tanzania; by firms, companies, or other organizations regis- tered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by for- eign diplomatic missions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania. These accounts are divided into two broad categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any further scrutiny by or approval from the Bank of Tanzania. The bal- ances of nonconvertible accounts may be trans- ferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcatego- ries of nonresident accounts: external, shipping/ airline, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspeci- fied. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals who usually reside in Tanzania may maintain nonresi- dent accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. The import-licensing requirement was abolished during the last quarter of 1993. For informational purposes only, imports of goods with a value exceeding $2,000 require an import declaration form and a preshipment inspection document called a Clean Report of Finding. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. The tariff regime comprises four bands of 5 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent, and 40 percent, with a mini- mum rate of 5 percent. Certain imports, including 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 TANZANIA those for new investments, are exempt from tariffs. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemp- tions are granted for the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; aircraft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, and religious films; printed matter; cable and telephone material; sewing machines; and timber used by min- ing companies. Discretionary full or partial exemp- tions are allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. All imports with a value exceeding $2,000 are sub- ject to compulsory preshipment inspection by inter- national agencies for quantity, quality, and price; imports with a value greater than $20,000 must be financed with letters of credit, unless specific approval is granted from the Bank of Tanzania (BOT). All merchandise imports to the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corpo- ration of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports to Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to a sales tax at rates ranging up to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. This tax is also assessed on sales of domestic products. Payments for Invisibles The following transactions are permitted through foreign exchange bureaus: (1) up to $5,000 a trip for travel when a confirmed ticket is presented for bor- dering countries and $10,000 for travel to other countries; (2) an unlimited amount for medical treatment abroad, upon presentation of an invoice from a hospital abroad; (3) unlimited amounts for bona fide educational expenses, as verified on pre- sentation of invoice or bills from educational insti- tutions abroad; and (4) remittances of dividends and profits upon submission of appropriate docu- mentation. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus have the authority to approve remittances abroad of up to one third of the salary, throughout the period of employment, of foreigners temporarily working in Tanzania under contract and having a firm commitment to leave the country. Applications to remit more than one third of a sal- ary, or more than T Sh 6,000 a month, are consid- ered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. A traveler may take out of the country up to T Sh 1,000 in domestic currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds With effect from June 1, 1993, export licenses have been required for only a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters of traditional products may retain up to 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and exporters of nontraditional products may retain all of the proceeds to pay for imports.3 Export proceeds in convertible currencies must be repatri- ated within two months of the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania, this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning trav- eler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins up to T Sh 1,000. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to approval by commercial banks or the Investment Promotion Center. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Commissioner of Customs. Investment of foreign funds is not restricted in Tanzania, but, to ensure eventual repatriation, these investments must be recognized by the Investment Promotion Center, and a certificate of status as an approved enterprise under the National Investment Promotion Act of 1990 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. The act distinguishes three areas for foreign investments: (1) controlled areas, which are reserved for public investment or joint public and private enterprises; (2) reserved areas, which are reserved exclusively for investment by the public sector; and (3) areas that are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Registered for- eign investors are permitted to use up to 50 percent of their net foreign exchange earnings for debt ser- vicing or remittances of profits and dividends. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in for- eign exchange. Income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Pur- 3 The surrender requirement on traditional exports excluding coffee was abolished in June, 1994. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 497 chases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval from the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form at home or abroad. Import licenses are not required. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 3. The official and bureau exchange rates were unified. Subsequently, a weekly foreign exchange auction system was introduced, with the official exchange rate set on the basis of the average rate prevailing in these auctions. This official exchange rate would apply to all transactions, includ- ing those of the Government and private sector imports, as well as to exports of goods and services. Imports and Import Payments September 1. The OGL system was liberalized, and imports of all goods with the exception of those on the negative list were permitted. The negative list comprises eight luxury goods and goods that, for health or security reasons, may not be imported. The authority to examine applications for import licenses was delegated to the commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. All imports were subject to compulsory preshipment inspection by interna- tional agencies. The tariff regime was changed to a structure comprising four bands of 5 percent, 20 percent, 30 percent, and 40 percent, with 5 per- cent as a minimum tariff. September 1. Materials used in 20 selected indus- tries (with local manufacturing capacity) that had been subject to tariffs of 20 percent and 30 percent were exempted from tariffs, and all other raw mate- rials were subject to a tariff of 10 percent. Payments for Invisibles September 1. The travel allowance to bordering countries was increased to the equivalent of $5,000, and the travel allowance to other countries was increased to the equivalent of $10,000. Allowances for medical treatment abroad would no longer require a certificate from the Ministry of Health. Allowances for education would be granted with- out limit and a certificate from the Advisory Board for Higher Education would not be required. Remittances of dividends and profits were allowed without restriction upon submission of appropriate documentation. Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. The licensing of exports by the Board of External Trade was abolished. Exporters were no longer required to register with the Bank of Tanza- nia. The minimum export price system adminis- tered by customs was abolished. July 1. The surrender requirement for proceeds from exports of nontraditional products was abol- ished, and exporters of traditional products were permitted to retain 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Changes During 1994 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The exemption from tariffs that was granted to raw materials (in September 1993) was rescinded, and all raw materials were subject to a tariff of 10 percent. A large number of manufac- tured goods that were subject to tariffs of 20 percent or 30 percent were subject to the maximum tariff of 40 percent. February I. The negative list for imports was fur- ther shortened to cover products that would be pro- hibited from importation only for health reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners and on other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces the daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maxi- mum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dol- lars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 30, 1993, the middle official rate was B 25.54 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transac- tions must be related to underlying trade and finan- cial transactions. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium on the baht-U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usu- ally reflects interest differentials between the two currencies. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 4,1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank of Thailand delegates responsibility to autho- rized banks (commercial banks) for approving most transactions. Apart from authorized banks, autho- rized companies and authorized persons are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange operations, although their activities are limited to the buying and selling of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks up to a set amount prescribed by the Bank of Thailand. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. There are no special requirements for currencies that can be used in settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in foreign currencies are designated as foreign currency accounts. No restrictions are placed on the opening of foreign currency accounts as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on these accounts earn interest and may be transferred abroad without restriction. Nonresidents may also open nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may be debited without restriction and credited freely with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies originating abroad, proceeds from exports of goods and services, and funds transferred from other nonresident baht accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Imports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Importers of tea leaf, tea dust, and skimmed milk are required to purchase a propor- tionate quantity of the same type of goods pro- duced in Thailand. A few agricultural goods are subject to temporary import surcharges ranging from B 811 to B 1,786 per metric ton. Subsidies are also provided for certain goods. Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose values exceed B 500,000 when submitting the import entry form at customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Payments for imports may be made through any authorized bank. Importers may freely purchase foreign currency or draw foreign exchange from their own foreign currency accounts for payments. Payments for Invisibles Remittances abroad of service fees, royalties, insurance premiums, educational expenses, and family maintenance are permitted without restric- tion. Remittances of dividends and profits on all 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 499 bona fide investments may be made freely. Autho- rized banks are also permitted to sell up to $100,000 a person a year in foreign exchange for remittances to families and relatives living abroad and for remit- tances of up to $1 million a person a year from the personal assets of Thai emigrants who have perma- nent residence permits abroad. Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transac- tions involving amounts of more than $5,000. Autho- rized money changers are allowed to sell up to $2,000 or its equivalent a person in foreign exchange. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Viet Nam and the coun- tries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out or remit a maximum of B 250,000. Authorized banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange in foreign bank notes for purposes of travel without restric- tion; sales of amounts exceeding $20,000 in other forms (such as traveler's checks or drafts) require authorization from the Bank of Thailand. Nonresi- dents may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought into Thailand. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to licens- ing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other products may be exported freely. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transac- tion forms for transactions involving more than B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds to authorized banks or deposit them in for- eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. purchase. Travelers may bring in domestic or foreign bank notes and coins without restriction. Capital Capital investments in Thailand through equity participation or portfolio investments are permitted freely. Foreign investments in Thailand that receive promotional privileges from the Board of Invest- ment under the Investment Promotion Act (B.E. 2520) are accorded various incentives and special benefits. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without restriction, but pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Repatriation of investment funds, loan repayments, and interest payments may be made without restriction. Inflows and outflows of funds exceed- ing $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to comple- tion of foreign exchange transaction forms. External borrowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency no more than $5 million or its equivalent. Foreign currency loans may be extended to residents for outward remit- tance or domestic use. If loans are used domesti- cally, resident borrowers are required to convert the foreign currency obtained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign currency accounts. Direct investments abroad by Thai residents or lending to companies abroad that have at least 25 percent equity participation by Thai residents is permitted up to $5 million a year without authoriza- tion from the Bank of Thailand. Portfolio investments and purchases of properties abroad by Thai residents require approval from the Bank of Thailand. Proceeds from Invisibles Gold Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in for- eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and interna- tional organizations are exempted from this require- ment. Authorized money changers are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or trav- eler's checks in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within 15 days of 1 These include sorghum, rice, canned tuna, all types of sugar, and certain types of coal, charcoal, and textile products. Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the Ministry of Finance or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or platinum ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 THAILAND customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments June 23. The Ministry of Commerce issued Notifi- cation No. 93 (BE 2436) on Imports of Goods, sub- jecting to import license machineries that could be used for reproduction of recorded cassette tapes, compact discs, and video tapes in infringement of copyrights. June 21. The Ministry of Commerce prohibited the importation of used engine parts and accesso- ries of motorcycles with engine capacity not exceeding 50 cc, and both front and rear wheel rims not more than 10 inches in diameter. Payments for Invisibles March 19. Persons traveling to Viet Nam and the countries bordering Thailand were permitted to remit or take out domestic currencies up to B 250,000 a person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of January 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 100 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a proportional commission of 2.50 per mill and a fixed charge of F 100 per transaction on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU); these charges must be surrendered to the treasury.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The con- tracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly speci- fied goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Came- roon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and lrThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the union are free of commission. the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in for- eign countries. The Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regula- tions for amounts of CFAF 500,000 or more and on specific requests from violators of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal and Telecommunica- tions Office (Office des postes et telecommunica- tions), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. The forwarding and receipt of bank notes through the mail by authorized intermediar- ies are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. All required import licenses and virtually all required export licenses are issued by the For- eign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exports of locally manufactured products, cereals, and other food crops and imports of nearly all products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current pay- ments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 Nonresident Accounts TOGO Because the BCEAO has suspended the repur- chase of BCEAO bank notes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, foreign accounts in francs may not be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Lome by the foreign correspondents. Foreign accounts in francs may not, without authorization, be debited with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized interme- diaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohib- ited. All other imports may be made freely, with the following exceptions: (1) licenses are required for imports of printed piece goods of Japanese origin; (2) imports of footwear, other than luxury or sports footwear, with an f.o.b. value of less than CFAF 3,000 are conditional, in principle, on the pur- chase of a specified quantity of the local product; (3) import licenses must be issued beforehand by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation for cement and wheat flour; (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be imported only by dealers legally established in Togo who possess an authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; (5) imports of pharmaceutical products, explosives, and firearms are subject to special arrangements; (6) imports of sugar, rice, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and cigarettes are sub- ject to special approval by the Ministry of Com- merce and Transportation; and (7) imports of potatoes were prohibited between August 31, 1992 and February 28,1993. The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) a fiscal import duty of 5 percent to 35 percent; (3) a general tax of 5 percent to 30 percent on businesses; and (4) a tem- porary tax of 15 percent on imports of locally pro- duced goods. With the exception of the general business tax, which is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imports inclusive of fiscal import duties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a private nature. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domiciliation) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payments are subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance; such authorization may be granted only on the date payment is due and only for up to 30 percent for each transaction involving capital goods and up to 10 percent for other transactions. For all import opera- tions exceeding CFAF 200,000 merchandise insurance must be taken out and domiciled with an authorized insurance company in Togo. Inspection of the quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authori- zation when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also gener- ally permitted. Residents traveling for tourism or business pur- poses to countries in the franc zone are allowed to take out BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances may be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allowances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, the BCEAO; and (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministers of finance may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel. Upon arrival at customs, returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession and must surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. All residents travelling to non- WAMU countries must declare in writing at the time of departure, all means of payment at their disposal. Nonresident travelers may re-export means of pay- ment other than bank notes issued abroad and regis- tered in their name, subject to documentation that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 503 they had used funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange to pur- chase these means of payment. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings requires documentation demon- strating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment reg- istered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Togolese Office of Phosphates has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates, and the Office of Togolese Agricultural Products has a monopoly over the exportation of cocoa, coffee, and cotton fiber. The due date for payment for exports to for- eign countries, including the Operations Account Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign currency pro- ceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The domiciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatriation of such receipts through the BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval from the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for place- ment abroad. Such operations require prior authori- zation from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical to, or can be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Mon- etary Union, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance,3 and at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign bor- rowing. Foreign direct investments in Togo4 must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister may request postponement of the projects within two months of receiving the declaration. Total or partial liquida- tion of any inward direct investment or any out- ward investment also requires prior reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Togo- lese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days of 3 Including investments made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 4 Including those made by companies in Togo directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TOGO each operation. (Direct investments are investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain cir- cumstances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization from the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may, for a specified number of years, be granted special privileges relat- ing to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemp- tion from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Code adopted on October 31, 1989 aims at promoting local employment and small and medium-size Togolese enterprises and at developing local resources. To obtain the tax bene- fits under this code, firms must (1) provide an amount from equity equivalent to at least 25 per- cent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (excluding working capital), and (2) pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits include primarily exemptions from the minimum forfait tax and cor- porate income taxes for five years for small and medium-size enterprises, seven years for enter- prises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guaran- tees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and exportation of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles August 2. Togo (and other member countries of the WAMU) suspended the repurchase of CFA franc bank notes of their common central bank (BCEAO) in circulation outside the territories of the CFA franc zone. The convertibility of the CFA franc into French francs through authorized financial intermediaries remained guaranteed. Following this decision, the WAMU member countries adopted regulations modifying the foreign exchange allocation provisions for travel abroad. The regulations would be uniform among the mem- ber countries. The new regulations distinguished between travel to the BCEAO countries, the BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros, and travel to countries outside the franc zone. For travel to other franc zone countries (BEAC countries, France, and the Comoros), the new regulations established lim- its on the amount of bank notes that travelers may take out (BCEAO bank notes up to a limit of CFAF 2 million for trips to BEAC countries, and bank notes for the equivalent amount for trips to France and the Comoros). Amounts in excess of this limit can be taken out in the form of means of payment other than bank notes. For travel outside the franc zone countries, the new regulations raised the previous limits as fol- lows: (1) for tourism travel, the limits were raised to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 500,000 without limit on the number of trips or differentiation by the age of the traveler; (2) for business travel, the limits were increased to a uniform ceiling of CFAF 75,000 a day for up to one month, corresponding to a maximum of CFAF 2.25 million (business travel allowances can be combined with tourism allowances); (3) allow- ances in excess of these limits must be authorized by the respective ministries of finance or, by delegation, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 505 the BCEAO; (4) credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the respective ministries of finance, may be used up to the ceilings indicated above for tourism and business travel to countries outside the WAMU; (5) the new regulations introduced for all WAMU countries a uniform requirement that resident travel- ers declare to customs and surrender within eight days all means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 remaining in their possession. In addition, travelers to BEAC countries, France, the Comoros, and other countries were required to declare in writing, at the time of departure from their country, all means of payment at their disposal. The new provisions also introduced a uniform requirement that nonresident travelers declare all foreign exchange upon entry. The re-exportation of means of payment other than bank notes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresi- dent traveler would not be restricted, subject to documentation that they had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs, or with other foreign exchange. The regulations raised to a uniform limit of CFAF 250,000 the amount of foreign bank notes that can be re-exported without restriction. The re-exportation of foreign bank notes above these ceilings would require documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign bank notes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresi^ dent deposits lodged in local banks. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement January 12. The CFA franc was devalued to CFAF 100 per F 1 from CFAF 50 per F 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga. Its external value is determined on the basis of a weighted bas- ket of currencies. These weights are related to the shares of the currencies in Tonga's international transactions. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (the central bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The Bank of Tonga (a commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their values against the pa'anga. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is approxi- mately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and pur- chases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 per- cent. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T$1.3725 and T$1.4000, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward exchange cover facilities for exports are provided by the Bank of Tonga with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Tonga formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22,1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for all imports, although the authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward issuing these licenses. Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural or environmental reasons or 1 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Sin- gapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. to protect the health and safety of residents. Tariffs, which range up to 35 percent and apply to most pri- vate sector imports, are aimed primarily at increas- ing revenues, but protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as beer, paint, and wire fencing. Tar- iffs are levied at an ad valorem rate on the c.i.f. value of imports, except for a few items (petroleum, tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages), which are subject to either specific tariffs or ad valorem rates ranging up to 300 percent of the c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. The maximum tariff rate, which is levied on motor vehicles, is 45 percent. Imports by the reigning monarch, the Government and the public sector, and diplomatic missions, as well as goods imported under certain technical assistance agreements, are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20 percent port and services tax. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required for all exports, except for shipments weighing less than 10 kilograms. With the exception of squash, which is subject to an export quota, the authorities maintain a liberal atti- tude toward granting those licenses. Effective Janu- ary 1, 1992, the monopoly of the Commodities Board over exports of coconut and coconut deriva- tives, vanilla, and bananas was abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$l,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve requests for larger amounts upon submission of sat- isfactory documentary evidence that the underly- ing transaction is a bona fide current international transaction. Such approvals are routinely granted without undue delay. Shipping and airline agencies may remit income earned from activities in Tonga upon producing income statements relating to local business activi- ties that have been submitted to their respective head offices. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, although so far such 506 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 507 investment remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for licenses, with approval depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic production rather than compete with it are generally preferred. Under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, foreign investors involved in manufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inputs, a 15-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, Tongan residents are not permitted to acquire financial assets abroad, although this restriction is not enforced. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement August 1. The Bank of Tonga was allowed to pro- vide forward cover to exporters against exchange rate risk. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and for- ward, with the public without limitations. Com- mercial banks must notify the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago in advance of any planned sig- nificant adjustment to the exchange rate. At the end of each trading day, the Central Bank publishes a nominal rate for the Trinidad and Tobago dollar against each of the major currencies, based on a weighted average of the rates at which these cur- rencies have been trading. Trinidad and Tobago formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 13,1993. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, which acts under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank does not repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.1 Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in one of the specified curren- cies. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any of the specified currencies. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. Foreign currency accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported under open general license (OGL) arrangements. Imports of some goods (certain food items, paper and paper prod- ucts used for wrapping tobacco or cigarettes, used motor vehicles, and ships and boats under 250 tons) are subject to the provisions of a negative list, and imports of these products require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tour- ism. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcot- ics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oil are traded principally by state companies. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. Duty-free licenses are granted to local conces- sionaire manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing industries. Where goods are sub- ject to import licensing, a general import license is used in addition to the duty-free license. Imports from non-CARlCOM countries2 may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satis- factorily invoiced. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent; that on agricultural produce is 40 percent.3 In addition, a second sched- ule in the form of surcharges on imports from non-CARlCOM countries of up to 25 percent of the c.i.f. value has been added to provide protection for items removed from the negative list. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cos- metics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fab- 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 In October 1992, the heads of government of the CARICOM countries agreed to a phased reduction of the common external tariff (CET) rates. Beginning January 1, 1993, the Trinidad and Tobago authorities accordingly adopted a new schedule of rates ranging from 5 percent to 35 percent. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 509 rics, range from 25 percent to 35 percent; the rate on motor vehicles is 35 percent.4 Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials, and all goods originating from CARICOM countries are exempt from customs duties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemptions from customs duties by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tourism on the rec- ommendation of the Industrial Development Cor- poration. Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foodstuffs, medicines, books, newsprint, and raw materials are exempt.5 Payments for Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago local currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, there is no restriction but a customs declaration is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foodstuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted under OGL. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. There are no requirements for the repatriation of export proceeds received in foreign currencies. In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all for- eign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents and nonresidents may bring into Trin- idad and Tobago domestic currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. For larger amounts, a customs declaration is required. Both resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in foreign currency notes up to US$5,000 without declaring to the controller of customs. Capital Capital transfers abroad do not require prior approval. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act of 1990 in order to hold an interest in real estate or shares in local companies. Following the amend- ment to the Exchange Control Act that went into effect in April 1993 when the Trinidad and Tobago dollar was allowed to float, foreign investors no longer require approval for their investments from the Central Bank to repatriate capital or capital gains. Moreover, there are no longer any limitations on the extent to which they may borrow locally. The Government has enacted basic incentive legis- lation designed to attract domestic and foreign invest- ment in manufacturing and in import-substitution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agree- ment on the harmonization of fiscal incentives. Cer- tain concessions may be granted to approved enterprises, including temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges outlined in the Investment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Bar- bados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are desig- nated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Gold 4 The related schedules of surcharges and stamp duties were reduced to the range of 10—25 percent and 10—20 percent, respec- tively, effective January 1,1993. 5 Previously exempt imported raw materials and intermediate inputs became subject to a tariff of 5 percent, effective January 1, 1993. In conjunction with this measure, the issuance of duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers has been discontinued. Exporters providing documentation on import duties paid on raw materials and on their exports may obtain a rebate. Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations stip- ulate that, except with specific exemptions and per- missions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between resi- dents must be an authorized bank; and (2) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. When appropriate, however, residents are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. Imports of gold jew- elry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are controlled by the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not usually granted except to the monetary authorities who may need to get authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 13. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar ceased to be pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, and the exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar was allowed to be determined in the interbank market on the basis of demand and sup- ply conditions. December 13. Trinidad and Tobago formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control April 13. All exchange controls relating to both current and capital transactions were eliminated. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The tariff range was lowered from a maximum of 45 percent to a range of 5 percent to 35 percent, and the surcharge on imports and the stamp duty were reduced by 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, whose exchange value is determined according to a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1993, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.17669 and D 0.17846, respectively, per F 1, and D 1.0414 and D 1.0518, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain for- ward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maxi- mum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are permitted among foreign currency operators. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank extends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guar- anteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Tunisia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 6,1993. Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, European currency units (ECUs), Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. Luxembourg francs, Qatar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Ministry of National Economy, in consultation with the Central Bank, for products that are subject to import or export prohibition or liberalization as well as for imports that are subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and its trade agreements with foreign countries. Import and export licenses are issued by the Minis- try of National Economy, with the endorsement of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tuni- sian dinars through foreign accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respective cen- tral banks. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars may be opened by (1) natural persons of Tuni- sian nationality changing their normal residence to Tunisia from abroad and any other natural or juridical persons of Tunisian nationality for their nontransfera- ble assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (3) foreign juridical persons for their establishments located in Tunisia; and (4) Tunisian diplomats and civil servants stationed abroad. No formalities are required for the opening of these accounts by foreign- ers; a declaration of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tuni- sia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and off- spring to undertake foreign travel; (3) amounts cred- ited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and (4) any payments abroad 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 TUNISIA (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property located abroad, of own- ership rights abroad, or of foreign claims and for pay- ments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities). Foreign accounts in convertible dinars and convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of con- vertible currencies to the Central Bank; bank notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a non- resident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a foreign account in con- vertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on bal- ances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) trans- fers from other foreign accounts; and (7) the pro- ceeds from the cashing of checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers to other foreign accounts; (3) the purchase of any for- eign currency from, or sales of any foreign exchange to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or sala- ried employees of the account holder. Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by any natural person residing in Tunisia or by any Tunisian or foreign juridical person for their foreign currency assets in connection with their establishments located in Tunisia. These accounts are essentially designed to allow their holders to cover themselves against exchange risks. They may be credited with (1) up to 40 percent of the export receipts of their holders; (2) the interest generated by the amounts deposited in such accounts; and (3) transfers from another professional account of the holder, either in the same foreign currency or another one. They may be debited for (1) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened; and (2) any other transaction with general or specific authorization. Balances may also be placed on the foreign exchange market. Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by natural or juridical persons residing in Tunisia with resources in foreign exchange, subject to central bank authorization. These accounts may be credited and debited under the terms laid down by the Central Bank in the authorization to open such accounts. Professional foreign trade accounts in foreign cur- rency may be opened by international trading com- panies set up under Law No. 88-100 of August 18, 1988, which encourages the establishment of inter- national trading companies. These accounts are designed to cover these companies' expenses and payments for international trading transactions, international brokerage fees, and foreign invest- ment operations. Internal nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of nonresi- dent individuals of foreign nationality residing tem- porarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the Central Bank with the following: (1) amount of transfers of funds car- ried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular, the non- transferable part of remuneration for services ren- dered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal non- resident account; and (5) transfers from another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. They may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her fam- ily in Tunisia; (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia; (3) lending to residents; and (4) transfers to another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. Special dinar accounts may be freely opened by non- resident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank. Such enter- prises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a foreign account in con- vertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank. Interest is paid ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 513 at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or trans- ferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to cer- tain conditions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfo- lio management expenses in respect of certain secu- rities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the off- spring or parents of the resident account holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a nonresident natural person of foreign nationality or by a nonresident juridical person. The opening of these accounts by a nonresident of Tunisian nation- ality or his or her spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global capi- tal accounts for their nonresident customers. Sub- ject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of transferable Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total with- drawals from one or more capital accounts in a cal- endar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the subsequent year. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to cer- tain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the mainte- nance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capi- tal account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the exception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain condi- tions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be over- drawn. Individuals and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and imports of some items from all sources are prohibited. A system of import controls is applied under which different procedures apply to different operators (manufac- turers, traders, and state monopolies), and special procedures apply to certain categories of transac- tions (e.g., export firms and imports without pay- ment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected freely or upon authori- zation. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, pub- lished in Official Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981, as amended subsequently. The importation of liberalized products is effected by an import certifi- cate, obtained upon presentation of a commercial contract, domiciled with an authorized intermedi- ary. The import certificate procedure may be used under certain conditions by industrial enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 TUNISIA materials and semifinished products used in their production; enterprises exporting less than 15 per- cent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import certificate procedure may also be used by investment promoters of authorized or declared investments for normally prohibited imports of capital goods that are required for their projects. The same procedure applies to capital goods imported by commercial representatives in Tunisia. The importation of authorized goods is effected under cover of an import license, annual, import authorization, or an import card. Licenses are approved and issued by the Ministry of National Economy and endorsed by the Central Bank. Import licenses are usually valid for six months but may be extended in some cases according to import requirements. Under the licensing system, a system of traders' quotas is also applied to certain com- modity groups, with special emphasis on consumer durables. Quotas are allocated on the basis of a point system, with the most important criterion relating to the size of the firm (employment and turnover, which differentiates between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographic location, the degree of special- ization, and the age of the firm are also considered in the allocation process. Annual import authorizations are issued by the Ministry of National Economy to certain categories of transactions on the basis of an annual import program. Import applications under the program must include a detailed document that gives infor- mation on expected import requirements for the following year, on the actual consumption of imported inputs in the previous year, and on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authoriza- tions are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an auto- matic one-year extension of the unused portion on December 31 of that year. Without prior authoriza- tion, importers may, in certain cases, substitute the products authorized for other products within the overall limit stipulated in their import authoriza- tions. During the year, they may also request addi- tional imports by documenting the use of the amount allotted them. Import cards are issued to importers in certain sec- tors. These are available to importers in productive sectors of economic activity (for example, cottage craft industry and agriculture) to import goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year. With prior authorization imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources out- side Tunisia, may be effected without foreign trade formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, companies exclu- sively engaged in exporting goods or services and set up under the Investment Incentives Code pro- mulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27,1993, and companies established in a free trade zone under Law No. 92-81 of August 3,1992, on free trade zones may import freely without foreign trade for- malities any goods required for their production pro- cess, subject only to customs declaration. State trading organizations are the exclusive importers of about 14 percent of the total value of imports, and about 52 percent of these imports con- sist of energy products. The major public trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des cereales (wheat and barley), the Office national de Fhuile (for vegetable oil), the Regie nationale des tabacs et allumettes (for tobacco) and the Pharmacie centrale (medical prod- ucts). The state trading commissions meet periodi- cally to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of specified products. State trading agen- cies are required to complete the same foreign trade formalities as those that apply to the private sector. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate, an import authorization, an import license, or an import card. All import documents involving pay- ments must be handled by one or more authorized banks. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maxi- mum term of 12 months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. In some cases, imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are empowered to provide for- eign exchange for tourist and business travel, study and educational expenses, expenses related to travel abroad for reasons of health, and salary transfers, up to prescribed limits. The annual limits for tourist travel allowances are D 500 for an adult and D 250 for a child under the age of 10. The annual settlement and the monthly educational expense allowances for a student are D 400 and D 600, respectively. Amounts exceeding these limits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 515 may be authorized by the Central Bank. Business travel allowances are granted for all enterprises, regardless of whether they are importers or not, in accordance with business turnover declared to the tax authorities. The allowance for exporters is 10 percent of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 80,000. The annual limit on the allowance for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on turnover, and the annual limit on the allowance for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on turnover declared to the tax authorities. Other payments for invisibles are not subject to control. Contractually employed foreign nationals and foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer up to 50 percent of their earnings; for tech- nical assistants, limits on transfers are specified in their contracts. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons trav- eling under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children liv- ing in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those trav- eling for medical reasons are exempt from the tax. The exportation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. cific or general authorization, such as payments of expenses needed for the enterprise's activities and servicing of external obligations. Nonresident com- panies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incentives Code, nonresident international trading companies, and nonresident enterprises constituted in a free trade zone are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign countries. However, the facilities associated with professional accounts in foreign exchange in convertible dinars apply to proceeds from services (see sections on Exports and Export Proceeds and Resident and Nonresident Accounts). Foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of more than D 500 in foreign exchange must submit a currency declaration upon entry. The reconversion of Tunisian bank notes by nonresident travelers is not limited if the stay exceeds 24 hours; it is limited to 30 percent of the amount converted, or not more than D 100, if the stay exceeds 24 hours. The importation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Capital All exports to Israel are prohibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain nonenergy exports (amounting to about 10 percent of the total in 1990) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of National Economy. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered within 10 days of the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Under certain con- ditions, approval from the Central Bank is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell forward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for provid- ers of services), foreign currencies representing the proceeds from their merchandise exports through authorized intermediaries. Resident exporters may credit up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to their professional accounts (see section above on Resident and Nonres- ident Accounts). Balances in these accounts may be used for any foreign exchange transaction with spe- All direct investments carried out legitimately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad are guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of foreign exchange invested. Direct investments in agriculture and fisheries, manufacturing, public works, tourism, handicrafts, transport, education and teaching, vocational train- ing, the production of culture and related indus- tries, youth coordination and child supervision, health, environmental conservation, real estate pro- motion, and other nonfinancial activities and ser- vices benefit from the incentives contained in the Investment Incentives Code, promulgated by Law No. 93-120 of December 27, 1993. Direct invest- ments in the financial and banking sector and the foreign trade sector and those carried out in a free trade zone benefit from the incentives provided for in Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1?85 (q$ ffiiqen- tives for financial and banking establishments cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 TUNISIA ducting business essentially with nonresidents), in Law No. 88-110 of August 18, 1988 (on incentives for international trading companies), and in Law No. 92-81 of August 3, 1992 (on free trade zones), respectively. The investment incentives include tax and financial benefits, as well as facilities, with regard to laws and regulations governing foreign exchange and foreign trade that are essentially ori- ented toward export promotion. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left the country permanently are entitled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) if they left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;2 D 4,000 if they left between August 20, 1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 if they left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 if they left after December 31, 1974; D 15,000 if they left Tunisia after December 31,1978, are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount if they are of French or Italian nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. Resident exporters may, depending on their turn- over, transfer abroad amounts ranging from D 20,000 to D 100,000 and from D 10,000 to D 50,000 per calendar year to cover installation expenses and operating costs of liaison offices and subsidiaries that they constitute or create abroad for purposes of facilitating their export business. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. All other transfers by residents, the contracting of foreign loans by residents, and the extension of loans to nonresidents require approval from the Central Bank, except for investment loans extended by resident banks for nonresident industrial enter- prises with funds held abroad. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importa- tion and exportation of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization from the Central Bank and the Ministry of National Ecori- omy. Only dentists, artisan jewelers, and coopera- tives formed by artisans are eligible to purchase 2 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total value of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. gold from the Central Bank. The exportation of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 6. Tunisia formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Administration of Control August 27. The Central Bank was authorized to establish the interbank foreign exchange market. September 13. A free trade zone was created at Zarzis. October 4. A free trade zone was created at Bizerte. Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 15. Residents exporting professional services and requiring foreign exchange to perform such services were permitted to maintain resident foreign exchange accounts. These accounts may be credited with up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings and be debited to pay for service-related expenses without restriction. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Law No. 92-122 with the following main provisions came into effect: (1) the list of products subject to temporary compensatory import duties was modified and duty rates intro- duced in 1992 were reduced by 10 percentage points; (2) the temporary surcharge on import duties and taxes was extended until the end of 1993; and (3) the suspension and reduction of cus- toms duties on imports of certain raw materials and articles were extended until December 31,1993. April 5. A compensatory import duty was intro- duced to protect against unfair importation practices. July 26. Tax benefits were granted for the pur- chase of cargo ships and of vehicles for the trans- portation of passengers or freight. October 11. Customs duties, the value-added tax, and the consumption tax on imports and local sales of the raw material, articles, material, and equipment used in handicrafts were reduced or suspended. November 5. Customs duties were reduced and the value-added tax was suspended on imports and local sales of parts, components, products, and arti- cles for use in agriculture, fisheries, and shipbuild- ing, and on insecticides and similar products to be used exclusively in agriculture. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 517 November 8. Customs duties were reduced and the value-added tax was suspended on imported or locally manufactured sports articles and articles for use in socioeducational activities. Payments for Invisibles January 6. (1) The foreign exchange allowance for Tunisians traveling abroad for tourist purposes was increased to D 500 from D 250 a year for an adult and to D 250 from D 100 for a child under 10 years of age; (2) the annual ceiling on business travel included in professional accounts and business travel by exporters was increased to D 80,000 from D 10,000, that on business travel allowances for importers was increased to D 30,000 from D 5,000, depending on the import turnover, and that on oth- ers, including professionals, was increased to D 20,000 from D 2,000; (3) the annual settlement allowance for students was increased to D 1,000 from D 500, and the monthly allowance for educa- tional expenses abroad, which had ranged from D 240 to D 400 depending on the host country, was increased to D 600; and (4) private enterprises, irre- spective of their nature of business, were allowed, with supporting documentary proof, to make pay- ments in foreign exchange through approved inter- mediaries for all expenditures pertaining to services needed for their activities. January 6. The Central Bank started granting approval for all bona fide exchange applications for the purpose of tourist travel, educational expenses, and business travel in excess of the specified limits. Remittances of living allowances and retirement pensions for residents in countries that have recip- rocal arrangements with Tunisia would no longer require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Capital January 6. Financial institutions and firms may borrow abroad up to D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively, without prior authorization from the Central Bank. October 7. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises were authorized to con- tract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to a limit of D 10 million and D 3 million, respec- tively, per calendar year. October 18. Over and above health care costs, nat- ural persons traveling abroad for health reasons and those accompanying them were authorized to transfer up to D 750 and D 500, respectively, for hir- ing expenses. December 10. Procedures were adopted on the various ways of transferring funds for current transactions mainly in connection with the activi- ties of economic transactors (technical assistance; technology transfer, entrepreneurial and manage- ment contracts; representation fees; participation in trade fairs abroad, etc.) (measure in force since Jan- uary 6). December 27. The Investment Incentives Law was promulgated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions, and Turkey fol- lows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the Turkish lira against the U.S. dollar is determined in the daily fixing sessions held in the Central Bank of Turkey. Commercial banks, special finance institutions, authorized insti- tutions, and the Central Bank can participate in the daily fixing session by giving two-way quotations for amounts not exceeding $400,000, with spreads between the purchase and sale prices not exceeding 0.25 percent. Once the Turkish lira-U.S^ dollar exchange rate is determined in the fixing session, exchange rates for other currencies are set on the basis of the cross rates with the U.S. dollar in international markets. These rates then become the official exchange rate of the following day and are used in the Central Bank's transactions and for official, statistical pur- poses. Commercial banks, special financial institu- tions, and authorized institutions are free to set their exchange rates once a day for foreign exchange transactions that do not exceed $3,000 and are required to inform the Central Bank. In for- eign exchange transactions exceeding $3,000, the exchange rate for each transaction is also deter- mined freely between these institutions and the parties concerned. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions must be reported daily to the Central Bank. The commercial banks are free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank market, through which foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place. To facilitate quotations of interbank rates dur- ing the day, as well as during the week, both one-way and two-way quotations are in operation. On December 31,1993, the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 14,900.14 and LT 14,930.00 respectively, per US$1. On De- cember 31, 1993, the average rate in the interbank market for the U.S. dollar was LT 14,980.00 per US$1. The commercial banks can deal freely in forward transactions within the predetermined limits imposed by the Central Bank. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international practices. Banks enter into swap transactions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22,1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Undersecre- tariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is attached. Administration of exchange controls has been dele- gated to the Central Bank, which regulates all mat- ters related to foreign exchange operations. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, who also issues export licenses but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Turkey notified the Fund on August 5, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Certain commercial transactions with the Czech Republic, Poland, the Slovak Republic, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through spe- cial accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with autho- rized commercial banks. The holders may dispose of such accounts at their discretion. 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Payments for Invisibles TURKEY 519 All goods are freely importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by law, such as narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition. Imports of these goods are allowed only with a special permit from the author- ities. Old, used and reconditioned, defective, sub- standard, soiled, or poor-quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a project (except wasted and residual goods), permission may be given by the State Planning Organization. All commercial imports require import licenses; their length of validity is determined by the autho- rized parties and may be extended according to prin- ciples determined by the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industri- alists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for any authorized person to apply to any bank for an import license. The import license permits the neces- sary foreign exchange payments to be made and per- mits goods to be cleared through customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or by way of acceptance credits. Partial prepayments are authorized under certain conditions. Import payments may be made through foreign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. Exporters and providers of services are freely allowed to use foreign exchange earned from exports of goods (excluding the portion subject to surrender requirements) and services for payment of their own imports. Regulations governing imports made without allocations of foreign exchange from the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or professional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey and temporary imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties, based on the Harmonized Com- modity Description and Coding System, range up to 10 percent on raw materials, between 10 percent and 30 percent on intermediate and semifinished products, and between 30 percent and 50 percent on finished goods. Higher rates apply to certain consumer goods considered luxuries. Residents may freely make payments for invisi- ble transactions relating to all services to nonresi- dents at home or abroad. All residents traveling abroad may carry foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $5,000 a per- son without proof of exchange allocation by com- mercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents and nonresidents without restriction. Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Turkish citizens traveling abroad are subject to a tax equivalent to $100, payable in Turkish liras, regard- less of whether there are related purchases of for- eign exchange; the tax is reduced by one half for travelers 18 years or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the permission of the governor of the province concerned must pay the equivalent of $25 in Turkish liras, and immigrants and refugees traveling abroad must pay the equivalent of $50 in Turkish liras. Exempt from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by administrative per- mit; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private students being edu- cated abroad; and (8) civil servants (and their fami- lies) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency notes and Turkish lira notes and coins. Foreign currency notes in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent may be taken out of the country, provided it is documented that they have been purchased from commercial banks. On leaving Turkey, Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they declared such amounts on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports are classified into the follow- ing categories: (1) free exports (i.e., exports not requiring any official permission); (2) exports subject to registration, which covers exports of goods for which payments are made from, or premiums are paid to, the Support and Price Stabilization Fund, raw materials for textiles, all kinds of textiles and garments, raw and finished leather, leather garments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 TURKEY and other leather products, semifinished steel and iron products, natural gas under agreement with the states of the former U.S.S.R., products to which quantitative restrictions are applied, and raw vegeta- ble oils (including olive oil) and oil seeds. The Free Export Declarations related to the goods that fall into this category must be registered by the professional institutions, Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade, and/or the customs administration upon the application of the exporter; and (3) exports that require the permission of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade or the professional insti- tutions authorized by the Treasury. These include exports on credit, consignment and temporary exports, exports undertaken by the construction companies that are awarded construction and instal- lation work abroad, or exports intended for use in international fairs and exhibitions. All companies are allowed to conduct barter trade in accordance with established procedures. Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment. If exchange receipts are surren- dered within 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30 percent of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commer- cial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Com- mercial banks are required to sell to the Central Bank 20 percent of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports and invisible transactions within a period agreed with the Central Bank. A system of export incentives in the form of sub- sidized credits administered by the Turkish ExiM- BANK is in operation. Under the Foreign Trade Companies Rediscount Credit Program (introduced in January 1990), exporters whose annual export turnover exceeds $50 million are eligible to receive credit either in Turkish liras, with the interest rate related to the rediscount rate of the Central Bank, or in foreign currency, with the interest rate linked to LIBOR. The ExiMBANK also maintains a program of preshipment credit designed to meet the financing needs of manufacturers and exporters. The credits under this program are extended for up to 120 days with fixed interest of between 25 percent and 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of the export commit- ment depending on the maturity. In addition, the EXIMBANK provides buyers' credit facilities to sup- port Turkish exports to certain countries, including Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and some of the states of the former U.S.S.R.; it provides insurance against commercial and political risks on commercial terms. Premiums are paid from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund for selected export products; in 1993, 110 items were eligible for these premiums. Exporters of manufactured goods exceeding $250,000 in value are eligible to deduct 5 percent of the gross value of their exports from their taxable income. Exporters holding export encouragement certificates are permitted to import inputs free of customs duties or levies for extrabudgetary funds. To benefit from this facility, exporters must under- take to achieve a certain export turnover and must present documentary proof that they have used duty-free imports in the manufacture of exported goods. Normally, the value of duty-free imports may not exceed 40 percent of the export value. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey. For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services), as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name, and on behalf of, nonresidents, may be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in kind or in the form of foreign exchange and must obtain a license from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. In establishing part- nerships or joint companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of capital. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law. Profits and dividends and the pro- ceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corpora- tions may invest abroad and in the free zones in Turkey up to the equivalent of $5 million in cash or in kind. The exportation of capital in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5 million requires the authoriza- tion of the ministry to which the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is attached. Nonresi- dents may transfer abroad, without restriction, pro- ceeds from sales of real estate. Purchases and sales by nonresidents of Turkish securities, including mutual funds, quoted in the stock exchange or issued with the permission of the Capital Market ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 521 Board and all securities issued by public institu- tions through the intermediary institutions operat- ing in Turkey under the Capital Market Law, including banks, may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securities and the proceeds from their sale are free through banks and special finance institutions. Purchases and sales by resi- dents of foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and of treasury bills and government bonds that are denominated in approved currencies are also free, provided that the transactions are car- ried out by banks and special finance institutions. Residents may also issue and sell securities in the financial markets abroad. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange accounts for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are free to operate within the margins of certain ratios set by the Central Bank. The liquidity ratio, under which banks hold foreign exchange assets against foreign exchange liabilities, may not be less than 10 percent. The ratio of all foreign currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign exchange overdrafts and foreign exchange loans received from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement. This ratio is calculated on the basis of the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, or the U.S. dollar equivalent of other convertible cur- rencies. The exchange rate risk used in relation to foreign exchange position management is 75 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for the ratios based on deutsche mark and U.S. dol- lars and 80 percent (minimum) and 110 percent (maximum) for the ratios based on the U.S. dollar equivalent in other currencies of the total amount concerned. Gold The Central Bank is authorized to import gold into Turkey and to conduct purchase and sale trans- actions with the public without restriction. In a gold market established in the Central Bank, gold con- forming to international standards is sold to the banks and authorized institutions in exchange for foreign currency. Banks and authorized institutions, in turn, sell gold to the public in exchange for Turk- ish liras. The exportation and importation of gold (except for unwrought gold) are allowed within a framework established in the export and import regimes. Authorized banks are allowed to import unwrought gold, subject to customs declaration. The importation and exportation of processed pre- cious metals, stones, and goods for commercial pur- poses are not restricted. Travelers may bring into or take out of Turkey precious metals or stones in their personal possession with a value of up to $15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Various import taxes calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of goods were consolidated into customs duties. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The gross value of exports that exporters of manufactured goods with a minimum value of $250,000 are allowed to deduct from their corporate tax base was reduced to 5 percent from 8 percent. Capital March 1. Authorization of the ministry to which the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is attached was required for outward capital trans- fers exceeding $5 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Turkmenistan is the Manat1 the external value of which is fixed in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were manat 1.98 and manat 2.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned in the interna- tional market. Administration of Control Under existing laws, only the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT), alone or together with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Tax Authority, depending on the type of operation involved, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations. Five commercial banks have been granted licenses to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, one com- mercial bank has been licensed to deal in foreign exchange domestically (only with resident custom- ers). The Foreign Exchange Regulation Law, which came into effect November 1,1993, provides for free- dom to make payments and transfers for current international transactions and for nonresidents to export previously imported capital. The law pro- vides that mandatory surrender of all foreign exchange earnings of residents is to be determined according to the procedures and in amounts estab- lished by the CBT. A CBT directive of October 8, 1993, requires that foreign exchange be surrendered through commercial banks within three working days of receipt and establishes banks' open foreign exchange position limits as one tenth of their capital. The law gives the Government the priority right to acquire foreign exchange according to the exchange arrangements established by the CBT. The use of for- eign exchange reserves is controlled exclusively by the President. Cotton exports to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. are effected under barter arrangements. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. lrThe national currency, the manat, was introduced on Novem- ber 1, 1993, at the conversion rate of manat 1 to Russian ruble 500, and the official exchange rate was set at manat 2 per US$1. Settlement with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. On June 28,1993, the CBT ordered commercial banks to temporarily close their correspondent accounts with banks abroad, including those in other states of the former U.S.S.R., and all payments have been centralized through the accounts of the CBT. External payments must be made through the CBT. Foreign Exchange Accounts Authorized banks that have received a general license from the CBT to deal in foreign exchange may open foreign exchange accounts for natural and juridical persons who meet the following crite- ria: (1) they possess a certificate of registration as a participant in economic relations issued by the Commission on Foreign Economic Relations under the Administration of the President of Turkmeni- stan, and (2) they are engaged in foreign economic activities. Interest is payable on balances in these accounts in the currency of the account at a rate to be determined by the authorized bank. Imports and Exports Interstate trade agreements remain in place, and the licensing and quota arrangements for some products continue to apply. All goods may be imported without restriction except for those on the negative list. In addition to certain items (such as arms, narcotics, and antiquities) whose trade is pro- hibited or restricted for national security reasons, quantitative and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supplies. All exports require a special license. A fee is col- lected at the rate of 0.01 percent of the value of the licensed product that is sold in convertible curren- cies; the fee on exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. is 0.1 percent of the ruble value of the licensed product. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered in full at the official exchange rate. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 523 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must possess valid passports to pur- chase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The maxi- mum amount of foreign exchange a person may purchase from the commercial banks without approval from the CBT is $200; additional amounts may be granted on proof of need. All other pay- ments for invisibles require approval from the CBT. Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. Capital Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to the approval of the CBT. The Law on For- eign Investments in Turkmenistan permits, in prin- ciple, foreign direct investments by juridical persons with foreign participation in all sectors. Investors are required to obtain authorization from the Commission of Foreign Economic Relations.2 Foreign investments are protected from nationaliza- tion. The law provides that, at the request of inves- tors, for a period of ten years the law in force at the time of registration should prevail over any subse- quent amendment to the law. Foreign investors are allowed to repatriate proceeds from the liquidation of capital without restriction. Profits may be rein- vested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in national or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Gold A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Laws regulating trade in gold are in effect. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement November 1. The national currency, the manat, was introduced at the conversion rate of manat 1 2 If the amount of investment is more than $500,000, the con- sent of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan is required. per Rub 500, and the new foreign exchange law came into effect. November 6. An interbank foreign exchange auc- tion system was introduced. Prescription of Currency June 23. The CBT ordered commercial banks to close their correspondent accounts with banks in other states of the former U.S.S.R., and all payments with these states were centralized through the accounts of the CBT. October 21. The CBT ordered commercial banks to close their correspondent accounts with all banks abroad. Imports and Exports January 1. A procedure for licensing exports and imports was established. A list of products requir- ing licensing was issued. October 1. A directive was issued by the CBT requiring that foreign exchange be surrendered through commercial banks within three working days of receipt and that banks' open foreign exchange position not exceed 10 percent of their capital. Changes During 1994 Imports and Exports January 1. The tax on exports of goods and ser- vices was eliminated. January 1. A new procedure by which state enter- prises transfer part of their foreign exchange pro- ceeds to the Government's foreign exchange fund was introduced. January 20. A procedure allowing foreign exchange to be used temporarily as a means of payment in Turkmenistan was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of April 30,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling, the external value of which is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain trans- actions may be effected in foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. On December 31, 1993, the buying and selling rates in the inter- bank foreign exchange market were U Sh 1,124.0 and U Sh 1,182.0, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks may deal forward with cus- tomers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may impose a service charge of not more than 1.0 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Uganda formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 5,1994. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trols on behalf of the Minister of Finance but has delegated a broad range of exchange control responsibilities to authorized banks and exchange bureaus. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, which has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda settles accounts in U.S. dol- lars with the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area (PTA) for Eastern and Southern African States through the PTA clearinghouse. Authorized payments, including payments for imports by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda or in any other cur- rency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Uganda maintains bilateral clearing arrangements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire; the agreements with Rwanda and Zaire are inoper- ative. Inoperative bilateral trade and payments agreements are also maintained with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahir- iya, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by persons with diplomatic status are designated external accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Uganda and with trans- fers from other external accounts or any other exter- nal source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents who are exporters of goods and who are earning commissions, consult- ing fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange may operate foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Payments made from these accounts are subject to the same restric- tions as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureaus. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are controlled through the import-licensing system. Foreign exchange alloca- tions to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Importers are provided with a renewable certifi- cate, which is valid for six months and which per- mits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The importation of firearms and ammunition, pornographic materi- als, beer, soda, and cigarettes is prohibited. Private sector importers may purchase foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureau to pay for imports without restriction. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except for debt-service payments, are financed through the interbank for- eign exchange market. With the permission of the Director of Exchange Control of the Bank of Uganda, residents of Uganda may transfer abroad dividends 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 525 and profits, fees, and savings. The following limits apply to foreign exchange that may be purchased in the foreign exchange bureaus without referring to the Bank of Uganda: (1) travel, $4,000 a trip; (2) med- ical treatment, $20,000 a person to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents; and (3) education, $15,000 a person a year. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce, which are valid for six months and are renewable; they may be restricted to ensure suf- ficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Exporters may retain proceeds from exports and sell them in the interbank foreign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the for- eign exchange interbank market. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency bank notes and traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas loans by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguar- anteed overseas loans by resident companies or individuals. Foreign investment in Uganda is per- mitted with or without government participation. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code of 1991. In normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remitta- ble, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to nonresidents or to corporate bodies resident in Uganda that are controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resi- dent outside Uganda. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Mines. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 5. Uganda formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. November 1. The central bank (official) exchange rate and the secondary exchange rate were unified. The auction of external aid funds for imports was terminated. Prescription of Currency October 21. The bilateral clearing arrangement with the Central Biank of Kenya was terminated; transactions would be channeled through the Pref- erential Trading Arrangement (PTA) clearinghouse. November 21. The bilateral clearing arrangement with the Bank of Tanzania was terminated; trans- actions would be channeled through the PTA clearinghouse. Convertible Currency Accounts November 1. Exporters of coffee were allowed to operate convertible currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments November 1. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange importers are allowed to purchase in the foreign exchange bureau for import payment pur- poses without opening letters of credit was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of February 28,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Ukraine is the Ukrainian Karbovanets. The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU), in consultation with the Council of Ministers, sets the official exchange rate of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar. The official rates for all other convertible currencies are deter- mined weekly on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in the international market. A set of official exchange rates is established each Friday and is maintained for the following week. The official exchange rates are used for transactions with the Government, including, in particular, mandatory surrender of foreign currency export proceeds to the Govern- ment (see section on Imports and Exports, below); in government budget accounting; and for all offi- cial reporting by state enterprises. On February 28, 1994, the official exchange rate of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar was Krb 12,600 per US$1 and that against the Russian ruble was Krb 10.24 per Rub 1. There are three exchange rates in addition to the official exchange rate for each currency. The administered rate is applied to the proportion of foreign currency export proceeds that must be sur- rendered to the NBU (see below). Since February 28, 1994, this rate has been set by the NBU between the official exchange rate and the auction exchange rate. The auction exchange rate is deter- mined at the most recent weekly auction con- ducted by the NBU. For the U.S. dollar, the weekly auction is held every Friday. The exchange rate of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar is deter- mined by competitive bidding among representa- tives of commercial banks. The NBU is the sole provider of the U.S. dollar funds that are sold vol- untarily to the NBU by exporters during the week at the previous Friday auction rate. The NBU may also participate in the weekly auctions and buy foreign exchange for its own reserves. Commercial banks may participate in the auctions only as agents of customers who are potential importers with an import contract; they may not participate in the auction on their own behalf. More generally, interbank transactions of foreign currencies are prohibited. The rate at the auction held on Febru- ary 25, 1994 was Krb 30,200 per US$1. The third exchange rate, the rate for cash transactions for individuals at commercial banks, is freely deter- mined and quoted on a daily basis by commercial banks; the spread between the selling and buying rates for such transactions, however, must not exceed 2.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the NBU. Commercial banks must be licensed by the NBU to engage in foreign exchange transactions. As of Feb- ruary 28, 1994, 38 commercial banks were licensed to engage in international transactions and to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Payments to and receipts from countries with which Ukraine has bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.1 Trade with all other countries is settled in convertible currencies. Nonbarter trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. is settled in the currencies of these states as stipulated in the agreements, with the exception of trade through commodity exchanges, which is transacted in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents may open and oper- ate foreign currency deposits under certain condi- tions. The opening and operation of accounts in domestic currency by nonresidents is restricted. 1At the end of 1993, Ukraine maintained bilateral trade and payments agreements with Bulgaria, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Mongolia. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 527 Imports and Exports Licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations are required for all foreign trade activities.2 As of February 28, 1994, there were no quantitative restrictions on imports; nontariff barri- ers were limited to the standard rules that imported goods must meet national safety and environmen- tal standards. Effective from March 1, 1994, how- ever, import quotas were introduced for an extensive list of goods.3 Before 1993, the customs tariff regime of the former U.S.S.R. was in effect. With effect from Janu- ary 1, 1993, a new customs tariff regime was estab- lished (Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on a Unified Customs Tariff of Ukraine). The new regime contains three categories of duty rates. The first category (preferred duty rates) applies to goods entering from countries that belong, with Ukraine, to customs unions, those imported from developing countries (agricultural and industrial goods), and those imported under intergovernmen- tal preferential agreements. The rate of duty for these goods, except for tobacco and alcohol prod- ucts, is zero. The second category (concessional duty rates) applies to goods imported from coun- tries that have entered into a most-favored-nation arrangement with Ukraine and to goods imported from developing countries that are not covered under the first category. The average rate in this cat- egory is 6 percent. The third category applies to goods imported from all other countries; the aver- age rate in this category is 12 percent. A value- added tax has been levied on all imported goods since January 1,1994. Importers have three sources of foreign exchange: first, they may use their foreign exchange holdings, if any, at domestic commercial banks; sec- ond, they may tender for foreign exchange at the weekly auctions; and third, they may apply to the Tender Committee for foreign exchange allocations. The Tender Committee comprises various economic ministries, the NBU, and prominent trade organiza- tions and is headed by the Vice Prime Minister. It decides allocations of foreign exchange obtained through mandatory surrender of export proceeds. 2A license fee of 0.1 percent of the total amount exported or imported is levied on all exporters and importers. 3 These include meat, milk and dairy products, food grains, fats, sugar, machinery and equipment, and ferrous metals used for metal construction. Import quotas are to be allocated through auctions. Imports under intergovernmental agreement, imports of goods that constitute investment in enterprises established with foreign capital investments, imports by customs license stores, and imports funded from the Reserve Fund of the Cabi- net of Ministers are not subject to the new import quota system. In order to apply to the Committee for foreign exchange allocations, applicants are required to deposit karbovanets funds equivalent to their for- eign exchange application; the official exchange rate is applied to these deposits. Once foreign exchange is allocated, importers must use such for- eign exchange within five days to import goods or services as specified in their application. Importers must pay a foreign exchange commission of 0.5 percent of the amount allocated. Unused foreign exchange must be returned to the Government, without penalty, at the official exchange rate that was used for the initial purchase. Certain exports are subject to quotas and licenses. Exporters may obtain a quota in one of three ways: (1) by signing a state contract, under which the Government will purchase exportable goods for karbovanets at domestic market prices and use trading firms to sell them abroad for convertible currency; (2) by signing a state order to fulfill inter- state barter agreements; or (3) by purchasing a license at the monthly auctions organized by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and local commodity exchanges. About one f if th of the total quota for some products is earmarked for sale at the auctions. Quotas are not transferable. The exportation of manufactured goods is not subject to quota. Regional authorities are autho- rized to export up to 5 percent of certain locally pro- duced nonmanufactured goods outside the quota system.4 Strategic raw materials falling under the special export regime may be exported only by firms that have been authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. In 1993, these raw materials comprised eight items (coal, oil and oil products, gas, electric- ity energy, nonferrous metals, rare and precious metals, precious stones, and spirits). In 1994, the number of items under the special export regime was reduced to three (coal, nonferrous metals, and mineral fertilizers). The exportation of goods and services produced by enterprises established with foreign capital investments is exempt from quota restrictions and licensing requirements as well as from export duties unless otherwise specifically stipulated in domestic legislation or by interna- tional agreements. Effective January 1, 1994, all export taxes were eliminated. Firms must repatriate all of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports to domestic com- mercial bank accounts within 30 days of shipment, and sell, within 5 days of repatriation, 50 percent of 4 These include pig iron, ferro-silicon, potassium chloride, sili- con carbide, artificial corundum, and urea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 UKRAINE the foreign currency export proceeds. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by foreign firms are exempt from the surrender requirements. Forty percent of foreign exchange proceeds must be sold to the Government and the remaining 10 percent must be sold to the NBU at the official exchange rate. Commercial banks receiving foreign currency surrendered from exporters must report it to the Tender Committee within two days. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Exporters of services, such as the tourism indus- try, are also subject to the surrender requirement. Exemptions from these repatriation and surrender requirements are limited to the following: (1) a few enterprises engaging in international operations, such as the international airline company, are not required to repatriate their foreign exchange earn- ings; (2) individuals who provide services to non- residents are not required to hold foreign exchange earnings in domestic foreign currency accounts or surrender them to the Government or the NBU; (3) exporters who need to service external debt obli- gations that have been approved by the NBU, if the maturity exceeds 90 days, may retain foreign exchange needed for external debt-service obliga- tions before surrendering proceeds; and (4) inter- mediary firms in the foreign trade sector are required to surrender 50 percent of their profits in foreign exchange rather than 50 percent of revenues in foreign exchange. Residents may purchase foreign exchange with- out any limit. Residents may export foreign bank notes up to $400; they may export foreign bank notes up to $2,000 with the permission of autho- rized banks and up to $10,000 with the permission of the NBU. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign investors may, after paying taxes and fees, transfer abroad without restriction dividends, prof- its, and other foreign exchange assets obtained legally in connection with their investments. Organizations (of February 21, 1992), the Law on Foreign Investment (of March 3,1992), and Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Foreign Investment Regimes (of May 20, 1993).5 Foreign investments in most types of business are permitted, although licenses are required in some cases. A license from the Min- istry of Finance is required for investments in insur- ance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities. A license from the NBU is required for investments in the banking sector. In addition, con- cessions from the Council of Ministers are required for investments in the mining sector; such conces- sions may be for a maximum of 49 years. Foreign investment in Ukraine must be made in convertible currency or in kind. The Russian ruble is not regarded as convertible currency for this purpose. Tax relief is granted to enterprises established with foreign capital investments. The nature of the relief depends on the activity of the enterprise or organization, its turnover, and the proportion of foreign equity capital ownership. The basic profit tax rate is 18 percent, although special tax rates apply in certain sectors. For joint ventures whose foreign equity capital ownership is less than 20 per- cent, the basic tax rate is also 18 percent. Firms other than those engaged in the trading and inter- mediating activities are exempt from the profit tax for five years from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 50 percent from the rates applicable to domestic enterprises. Moreover, they are granted further five-year tax exemption from any new taxes imposed in the future. Trading firms are exempt from the profit tax for the first three years—and intermediating firms for the first two years—from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 30 percent from the applicable tax rate. In cases where the foreign equity capital ownership is 100 percent, taxable profits may be reduced by the amount of capital actually invested in Ukraine; additional relief may be granted for investments in priority sectors or in special economic zones. Capital Gold The contracting of external loans with maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the NBU. The NBU does not guarantee any loan. Lending to foreign borrowers also needs permission from the NBU. Foreign investments in Ukraine are governed by the Law on Foreign Economic Activity (of April 16, 1991), the Law on Income Tax for Companies and The NBU grants permission to commercial banks to export and import gold and other monetary met- als. Other residents are required to obtain a license 5 The State Program for Attraction of Foreign Investment of December 17, 1993 came into force on March 1, 1994. The pro- gram provides foreign investors with investment incentives on tax, insurance, credit, and depreciation for 32 branches of the Ukrainian economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 529 from the Ministry of Finance to deal in precious metals and stones. Permission to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabi- net of Ministers of Ukraine. Changes During 1993 Excha nge Ana ngemen t March 19. The NBU began setting the official exchange rate of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar, which was fixed at the Thursday auction; this rate would be maintained until the next auction. August 16. The official exchange rate was differ- entiated from the auction rate and fixed at Krb 5,970 per US$1. The official exchange rate for the Russian ruble was similarly differentiated from the auction rate and fixed at Krb 5.61 per Rub 1. November 1. The weekly foreign exchange auction was suspended, and the official rate for the U.S. dollar was changed to Krb 6,975 per US$1. The offi- cial rate for the Russian ruble was changed to Krb 5.84 per Rub 1. December 5. The official rate of the U.S. dollar was changed to Krb 12,600 per US$1, and the official rate for the ruble was changed to Krb 10.24 per Rub 1. An administered rate was introduced for foreign exchange proceeds from exports sold man- datorily to the NBU; it was fixed at Krb 25,000 per US$1. For other currencies, the administered rate of the NBU was fixed at double the official rate for the currency concerned. The NBU also began buying foreign currency export proceeds sold voluntarily to the NBU by exporters at the administered rate. However, a more depreciated exchange rate would apply to purchases of foreign exchange proceeds from exports sold voluntarily by exporters with a special arrangement with the NBU. Imports and Exports January 1. The Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on a Unified Customs Tariff of Ukraine came into effect. January 1. A regime of quotas and licenses for exports of about 290 products was introduced. An export duty regime was also introduced. The rates of export duty on products subject to licensing (mostly raw materials) were set at 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent. Goods exported by special permission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (e.g., nonferrous, rare and precious metals; coal; petroleum products; and a number of other goods) under state orders or under state contracts were exempted from the export duty, as were goods for which a quota was obtained through auctions. The duty rate on other goods, including manufactured goods, was set at 5 percent. April 21. A system of monthly auctions of export quotas was introduced. December 1. The Decree of the Cabinet of Minis- ters on Liberalization of Foreign Economic Activity came into effect. The decree reduced the list of product items subject to quota and licensing. December 11. The Tender Committee, to which importers could apply for foreign exchange, was established. Capital May 20. The Cabinet of Ministers Decree on For- eign Investment Regimes came into effect. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement February 5. The weekly auctions of nonconvert- ible currencies (mostly the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R.) began to be conducted. February 25. The weekly auction for the U.S. dol- lar was resumed. Imports and Exports January 1. A value-added tax on imported goods was introduced at the rate of 28 percent. January 1. The option of exporting outside the quotas if an export license was obtained on the Ukrainian Stock Exchange by paying an export duty in national currency equivalent to 5-30 per- cent of the price of the goods exported was discon- tinued. All export taxes were eliminated. February 15. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations issued a decree authorizing regional authorities to export up to 5 percent of certain locally produced nonmanufactured goods outside the quota system. March 1. Import quotas were introduced for an extensive list of goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate; since November 1980, the U.A.E. dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31,1993, the offi- cial buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6730 and Dh 3.6990, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into for- eign exchange transactions, including forward con- tracts related to commercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. The Central Bank maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million out- standing for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 million a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for com- mercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13,1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. aThe seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. All settlements with Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Distinction is drawn between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresi- dent accounts consist of those held with commer- cial banks on behalf of U.A.E. citizens working abroad; all foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates but who do not have residency; all embas- sies and diplomatic agencies in the country; all trade and financial companies, banks, and indus- trial companies incorporated outside the U.A.E. that have no local branches; and branches of local institutions in foreign countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons, but virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit. However, only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and importers may import only the commodities specified in their license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an export license to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be repa- triated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 531 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations (as specified in Article 90 of the Central Bank Act of 1980) and from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8 of 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the other member countries of the GCC are per- mitted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2 of 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Furthermore, nationals of the other member coun- tries of the GCC are permitted to engage in whole- sale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remit- ted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with, or lending to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee lev- ied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but only licensed parties may import gold for trade purposes. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The U.K. authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion with a view to moderating undue fluctuations in the exchange rate.1 On December 31, 1993, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.4775 and US$1.4785, respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket exchange rates. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United Kingdom notified the IMF on July 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. !The United Kingdom suspended intervention obligations with respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS) on September 16,1992. Payments for imports may be made freely. For import-licensing purposes, countries are divided into ten groups: the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) Area;2 the Central European Free Trade (CEFTA) Area;3 the EU (formerly Community) Area,4 the Dol- lar Area;5 the Far Eastern and Western Area;6 the Mediterranean Area;7 the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT) Area;8 the State Trading Area;9 the Residual Textile Area;10 and all other countries. 2 The ACP Area comprises Angola, Anguilla, Antigua and Bar- buda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, the Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swazi- land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 3 The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechten- stein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 4 The EU Area comprises all EU member states. 5 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua- temala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, the Philippines, the United States, and Venezuela. 6 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Can- ada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 7 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey. 8 The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, the Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polyne- sia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, May- otte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States. 9 The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Cambo- dia, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongo- lia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 10 The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territories other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Uruguay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 533 Most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the exception of certain textile goods,11 and the following excep- tions at the end of 1990: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;12 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) from the states of the former U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (4) from the State Trading Area only, eight commodities or groups of commodities; and (5) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required for goods that cannot be imported under the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licens- ing, under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilat- eral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of automobiles from Japan are subject to voluntary export restraints of the respective supplying com- panies. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horti- cultural, and livestock products are subject to European Union regulations. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export pro- ceeds.13 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, export- ers bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars, when the U.K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £10 million, may obtain cover against exchange 11 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 12 The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported according to the International Cocoa Agreement of 1986. 13 Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, or national heritage and in accordance with international agreements. rate fluctuations between the submission of their bid and the awarding of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control requirements on capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United King- dom or by residents abroad. However, investments involving the takeover of existing U.K. companies that are considered a vital part of U.K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manu- facturing undertakings. There are no restrictions or formalities on trans- actions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency busi- ness or convert them to sterling, subject to pruden- tial guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabili- ties in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35 percent non-interest-bearing de- posit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no spe- cial deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom. Gold sovereigns and Britannias are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 UNITED KINGDOM gold in manufactured form over fifty years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Depart- ment of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EU-wide basis during 1993, page 574.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities inter- vene when necessary to counter disorderly condi- tions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10,1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers eco- nomic sanction programs involving direct or indi- rect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam as well as with Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro), as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, the Haitian Transactions Regulations, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) Sanctions Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries, Cambodian accounts blocked as of Janu- ary 2, 1992, Government of Panama accounts blocked as of December 20, 1989, and residual blocked accounts of the Baltic states' governments under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations. The Department of the Treasury regulates the importa- tion into the United States of goods or services orig- inating from the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations and restricts the sale or supply of arms and petroleum products, regardless of origin, to UNITA (otherwise known as Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola) and to the territory of Angola under the UNITA (Angola) Sanctions Regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agen- cies. The Committee for the Implementation of Tex- tile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce and represented by other agencies, decides when to request consultation with exporting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guide- lines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilat- eral restraint agreements. Import quotas on certain dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items—the Department of Com- merce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations on transactions involving the govern- ments or nationals of Cuba, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, and the governments of Haiti, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), as well as those on imports from, and certain assets of, the Islamic Republic of Iran and on prohibited exports to UNITA or to the territory of Angola. Transfers of funds are also prohibited to persons in Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), or to or for the benefit of entities, wherever located, owned or controlled by entities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), pursuant to UN Security Council res- olutions, or to or through Libyan financial institu- tions. Certain payments to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam related to authorized travel are permitted, as are certain pay- ments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Lim- ited remittances to the remitter's close relatives in Cuba and Viet Nam are also permitted. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United States notified the Fund on June 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Imports and Import Payments The importation of goods and services originat- ing in or representing a property interest of Cuba, Haiti, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Demo- 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 536 UNITED STATES cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) is prohibited unless specifically authorized. Under authority of Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended, import quo- tas are in effect for certain agricultural products, including cotton of specified staple lengths, certain cotton waste and products, certain dairy products, peanuts, and certain products containing sugar. Import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cot- ton products, butter, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country-of-origin basis. Quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set forth in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Most dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains bilateral textile agreements with 31 countries nego- tiated in accordance with the MFA's provisions, and 7 agreements with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States in spe- cific product categories and provide for orderly expansion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine whether market disruption exists or is threatened. When necessary, consulta- tions with exporting countries are requested to establish limitations. Free trade area agreements are in force with Can- ada, Israel, and Mexico. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), which provided for duty-free treatment for approx- imately 4,400 items from 142 beneficiary develop- ing countries, has been in operation since January 1976.1 Under the program, a procedure referred to as "product graduation" allowed eligibility for duty-free treatment to be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country became competitive as defined by statute. However, the President has the authority to waive such treat- ment. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme was extended to beneficiary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian alt expired on July 4, 1993, but on August 11, Congress extended the GSP until September 30, 1999 and removed the states of the former Soviet Union from the list of countries that were banned as GSP beneficiaries. Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM); cumulation allowed two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product originate in the beneficiary country. Exempt from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least developed" bene- ficiaries; currently, 36 countries are thus desig- nated.2 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 24 countries and entities3 were des- ignated to receive preferential tariff treatment on specified imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Com- merce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on instruments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the North Atlan- tic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. With the exception of publications and other information materials, personal baggage, and simi- lar items, all exports from the United States to Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited unless licensed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. The Treasury Department adminis- ters controls on exports to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam of goods of foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nation- als, and on such exports by U.S. nationals to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and 2 Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 3Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Bel- ize, British Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Hon- duras, Jamaica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Nicaragua, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grena- dines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 537 Montenegro). Exports by U.S. nationals of arms and petroleum products regardless of origin, to UNITA, or to the territory of Angola other than through cer- tain designated points of entry, are also prohibited. Exports of certain military equipment to South Africa remain in effect along with a munitions embargo. Exports to all other countries, except Can- ada, of designated strategic materials and equip- ment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in offshore transactions in strategic goods involving certain countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- nating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). This program is administered pursuant to the Transaction Control Regulations. For many commodities being exported to countries other than Afghanistan, former member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,Viet Nam, and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), distribu- tion licenses may be obtained from the Commerce Department to cover multiple shipments. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, amended in 1985, the President can suspend the exportation of nonagricultural goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspen- sion of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a national emergency is declared. For agricultural commodities such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soy- bean products, and cotton, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system designed to improve market information and allow for more orderly exporting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the governments or nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam, or to or for the accounts of the govern- ments of Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and certain payments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran.4 Transfers of funds to per- sons in Iraq and in the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) or to or through Libyan financial institutions are prohibited. Effec- tive December 19,1991, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya was prohibited from clearing funds involving third countries through U.S. banks. Residents of the United States are allowed to remit up to $300 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba or Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to $500 to Cuba and $750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are subject to block- ing, as are payments involving a governmental interest from Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahir- iya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and payments involving an inter- est of an entity in the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro). Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transac- tions with, or involving, Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained a provi- sion authorizing the President to suspend or pro- hibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States (the Exon-Florio Amendment) if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national secu- rity and if existing laws, except the International Economic Emergency Preparedness Act and the Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving obligations contracted before January 19,1981 are subject to restrictions, as are payments for goods or services imported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 UNITED STATES Exon-Florio provision itself, are not, in the Presi- dent's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect the national security. In 1991, the Exon-Florio provi- sion was made permanent. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. Gov- ernment. The act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there is no restriction on the amount of cash or negotiable instruments that may be brought into or taken out of the United States; however, there are certain reporting require- ments for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than $10,000 in cash or negotiable instruments (as well as corre- sponding reporting requirements for shipments of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial control must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose varying restric- tions on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations but banks are subject to prudential oversight. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, may be subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve System. Beginning December 3,1981, U.S. chartered deposi- tory institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agree- ment Corporations,5 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have been allowed to establish inter- national banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements under Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to 5 These are defined as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance the operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements (cur- rently set at zero percent) in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign branches. A number of individual states (but not the federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF opera- tions. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insur- ance Corporation insurance coverage and assess- ments. Effective December 31, 1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept foreign currency deposits. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for import- ers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Gold producers may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restrictions but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1993 Administration of Control During 1993, the United States concluded trade agreements with a number of countries. The most significant were the following: January 19. The United States and the Kyrgyz Republic signed a bilateral investment treaty that would guarantee the Kyrgyz Republic the right to invest on terms no less favorable than those accorded to domestic or third-country investors. It would also guarantee the transfer of capital, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 539 exempt from performance requirements of any kind, and give access to international arbitration and international standards of expropriation and arbitration. February 1. The United States administration announced that it would prohibit awards of certain contracts by federal agencies for products and goods and services from some or all of the EU's 12 member states in response to Article 29 of EU Utili- ties Directive of January 1, 1993, which called for discriminatory treatment of products with less than 50 percent EU content. April 2. The United States-Canada Trade Com- mission announced that a third round of acceler- ated tariff reductions under the terms of the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement would take effect on July 1, 1993. These duty reductions would cover $800 million in bilateral trade. April 12. The United States and Azerbaijan signed a bilateral trade agreement calling for reciprocal most-favored-nation (MFN) status between the two nations. April 20. The United States and the European Union reached an agreement that partially resolved the dispute over Article 29 of EU Utilities Directive of January 1,1993. The United States removed "Buy American" preferences for all federally owned power-generation facilities. The agreement also extended treatment under the GATT Government Procurement Code to federal government procure- ment of services, construction, and previously uncovered goods. April 21. The United States and the Republic of Moldova signed a bilateral investment treaty that would guarantee both countries the right to invest on terms no less favorable than those accorded to domestic or third-country investors. It would also guarantee the transfer of capital exempt from per- formance requirements of any kind, and give access to international arbitration and international stan- dards of expropriation and arbitration. April 30. The U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) announced that a special review of the Supercom- puter Agreement with Japan, which specified certain procedures that the Government of Japan agreed to apply in its procurement of supercomputers, would be conducted under Section 306 of the Trade Act of 1974. Trade action would be initiated under Section 301 if the USTR found that Japan was not in compli- ance with the Supercomputer Agreement. May 19. The United States and the Republic of Kazakhstan signed a bilateral investment treaty. May 28. After EU-wide agreement was not reached with respect to telecommunications pro- curement under Article 29 of the EU Utilities Direc- tive, the United States announced that it would prohibit awards of certain contracts by federal agencies for products and goods and services from some or all of the EU's member states. June 10. The United States reached a bilateral agreement with Germany under which Germany agreed not to adopt discriminatory telecommunica- tions practices in return for its being excluded from UN sanctions. August 5. The United States and Canada con- cluded an agreement to settle the dispute regarding the beer trade. As part of this agreement, the 50 per- cent duty levied on imports of beer brewed or bot- tled in the Province of Ontario, Canada since July 24, 1992 was rescinded. At the same time, U.S. brewers were given greater opportunity to compete on the basis of price in Ontario starting no later than September 30,1993. December 8. The President signed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which is aimed at eliminating trade barriers in goods and services among the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Among the issues negotiated were market access, dispute settlement, services, investment, and intellectual property rights. Imports and Import Payments May 13. Ecuador was made eligible for Andean trade preferences. June 1. The antidumping duty on flat-panel dis- play screens from Japan was revoked. June 25. The USTR announced the results of the 1992 annual GSP Review, which included the sus- pension of Mauritania's eligibility under GSP. July 1. Country-by-country allocations of the sugar imports subject to the tariff-rate quota were announced for the period October 1, 1992 to Sep- tember 30,1994. August 11. The GSP, which had lapsed on July 4, 1993, was extended until September 30, 1999, and the statutory prohibition on extending GSP benefits to the states of the former Soviet Union (excluding the Baltic states, which had received GSP benefits in 1992) was abolished. September 30. The Russian Federation was desig- nated as a beneficiary under the GSP. December 14. The Kyrgyz Republic was desig- nated as a beneficiary under the GSP. Exports and Export Proceeds April 6. The United States and the Philippines signed an agreement providing for improved levels of protection and enforcement for copyrights, trademarks, and patents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 UNITED STATES April 26. The United States and Israel signed two bilateral trade accords. Under the first, Israel agreed to eliminate, by July 1993, duties on a range of products, including radio and television transmis- sion equipment, vitamins, fluorescent lights, and hydraulic instruments and valves. Under the sec- ond, Israel agreed to relax its import documenta- tion requirements. July 28. The United States and Hungary initialed an intellectual property rights agreement covering patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and semiconduc- tor chips. The agreement committed Hungary to introduce product patent protection for pharmaceu- ticals, with transitional protection for U.S. pharma- ceutical manufacturers, the highest standard of protection for computer software, and significantly improved copyright protection for sound record- ings in Hungary. June 29. The United States and the Republic of Korea concluded an agreement under which U.S. beef exports would be given greater market access. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan Peso.1 The Central Bank of Uruguay intervenes to ensure that the exchange rate will remain within the higher and lower limits of the exchange rate band (currently 7 percent) and allows market rates to float freely within these limits. The Central Bank periodically announces its intervention buying and selling rates. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, were Ur$ 4.416 and Ur$ 4.418, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on the cross-rate relationship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A tax of 0.05 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for interbank transactions settled in Uru- guayan pesos. On December 31, 1993, a tax of 2 percent on sales of foreign exchange to any insti- tution or agent outside the financial system was replaced by a 2 percent tax on purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the state-owned Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, the private commercial banks, and financial and exchange houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2,1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must also be authorized by the Central Bank. lrThe Uruguayan peso replaced the new Uruguayan peso at the ratio of 1,000 to 1 on March 1,1993. Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in speci- fied goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrange- ment with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration. The registra- tions are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Imports are subject to a customs tariff (tasa global arancelaria (TGA)), consisting of the impuesto aduan- ero unico (iMADUNl) and an import surcharge. The TGA has three rate categories: 6 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent. In general, the higher rate applies to finished goods, the middle rate to intermediate goods, and the lower rate to capital goods, raw materials, and imports that do not compete with domestic production. Twelve products including wheat, precious metals, and machinery and equip- ment for use in agriculture are exempt from tariffs. Tariffs are calculated on the assessed price or on the actual imports price (c.i.f.), whichever is higher. Officially assessed prices are based on import refer- ence prices (precios de referenda) or on minimum "export prices"of goods imported into the country (precios minimos de exportation); in addition, the lat- ter provide the basis for a sliding surcharge to be paid by the importer representing the difference between the minimum export price and the declared c.i.f. import price. There are currently 90 reference import prices, 72 of which are applied to textile products, and the remainder, to glass and tubes. Thirty-four items, mostly tires, sugar, wheat, and paper, are subject to minimum export prices. The domestic content and compensatory export requirements for the automobile assembly industry 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 URUGUAY were eliminated in July 1992, but assembly plants are allowed to import finished automobiles at a preferential tariff if they export automobiles that are assembled or parts that are produced in Uruguay for a similar value. The Treaty of Asuncion, signed in 1991 and aim- ing at establishing the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) between Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay by January 1995, imple- mented a 47 percent reduction in tariffs on goods traded among MERCOSUR countries on June 30, 1991. Thereafter, tariffs have been reduced by 7 percent every six months and are to be eliminated by the end of 1994. By the end of 1993, Uruguay's tariffs on imports from the member countries of MERCOSUR had been lowered by 82 percent of the general tariff level, and Uruguay's list of items excluded from MERCOSUR had been reduced as scheduled. These exclusions are expected to be eliminated by the end of 1995. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invisi- bles or the exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds From time to time, and for special reasons (for example, stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special conditions. Some traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semi- scoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and live- stock on the hoof (except pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and out- ward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. (In practice, however, this exception is not enforced.) The amor- tization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for indus- trial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The Uruguayan peso replaced the new Uruguayan peso at the ratio of 1,000 to 1. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The tariff regime was simplified to three basic rates of 6 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Exports The temporary currency of the Republic of Uzbekistan is the Sum-Coupon.1 Exchange rates for major currencies are quoted by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan twice a week on the basis of the exchange rate of the Russian ruble in terms of the U.S. dollar in the Moscow Interbank Foreign Cur- rency Exchange and the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. On December 31, 1993, the official rate quoted by the Central Bank was sum-coupon 1,247 per US$1. Foreign exchange transactions are conducted by six authorized banks, which are required to quote buying and selling rates with a maximum spread of 10 percent. Foreign exchange receipts are subject to a tax of 35 percent. Authorized banks are permitted to maintain an open foreign exchange position of up to a limit of 10 percent of statutory capital. Administration of Control The authority to control foreign exchange transac- tions is vested with the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the Main Tax Department under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through the system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with those countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Transactions with other countries are settled in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Both resident and nonresident natural and juridi- cal persons may open and operate convertible cur- rency accounts without restriction. 1 Sum-coupons, introduced on November 15, 1993, initially circulated in parallel and at par with the pre-1993 Russian ruble. 2 Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements with Armenia, Belarus, China, Estonia, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turk- menistan, and Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations issues licenses authorizing enterprises to conduct trade in goods that are not on a negative list.3 Enter- prises and organizations may, individually or jointly, use foreign exchange funds (secured from their operations) kept at authorized banks. Imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through state trade structures and on the basis of contracts concluded between buyers and suppliers. Following the signing of such a contract, the sup- plier obtains the required license from the License and Quota Department of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Quotas on goods licensed in compliance with intergovernmental agreements and contracts are approved by the Government. Licenses are required for exports to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. of goods considered to be of strategic importance to the country's economy, including gold, cotton, miner- als, fertilizers, and silk. Thirty percent of export proceeds received in convertible currencies are required to be surren- dered to the Central Bank, and 15 percent of export proceeds received in the currencies of states of the former U.S.S.R. are required to be surrendered to the Republic's Foreign Exchange Fund. Export taxes ranging from 5 percent to 40 percent are levied on certain products. Lower rates are applied to finished products, and higher rates to basic consumer goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, including transportation, is made available auto- matically once the underlying merchandise transac- tions have been approved. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel for employees of state-owned enterprises is limited to $155 a day, depending on the destination. Employees of private companies are exempt from this limit. The foreign exchange allowance for private travel ($500 a trip) is granted to holders of valid visas. Travelers are not required to surrender remaining foreign exchange after returning to Uzbekistan and are free to 3 The negative list includes weapons, drugs, poisons, nuclear materials, and certain printed materials. 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 UZBEKISTAN deposit it in convertible currency accounts at autho- rized banks. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country unlimited amounts of domestic currency. Minimum spending or conversion requirements for nonresident travelers do not exist. Nonresidents must pay for transportation and hotel services in convertible currencies. Capital Foreign investments in the form of joint ventures with enterprises may be undertaken with approval from the Cabinet of Ministers. Foreign equity capital participation of up to 100 percent may be allowed. Joint ventures are exempt from the profit tax during the first two years after registration and are allowed to export their products and import inputs without licenses and to retain foreign exchange earnings. Remittance of the foreign investors' share of profits is guaranteed, and the repatriation of capital is not restricted. Gold Trade in gold is prohibited, and transactions in gold may be conducted only by the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, and the National Bank for Foreign Economic Activity with the approval of the Government. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewelry or personal effects. Changes During 1993 Imports and Exports May 25. The surrender requirement was replaced with a 35 percent tax on foreign exchange receipts. Changes During 1994 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Authorized banks were permitted to carry out transactions in foreign bank notes. April 15. The exchange rate of the sum-coupon in terms of the U.S. dollar and other currencies would be determined on the Uzbek Republican Currency Exchange. Imports and Exports January 1. The tax on foreign exchange proceeds was reduced from 35 percent to 15 percent, and the mandatory surrender of 15 percent of foreign exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at the offi- cial exchange rate was introduced. April 1. The tax on foreign exchange proceeds was replaced with the surrender requirement; 30 percent of proceeds in convertible currency would be required to be surrendered to the Central Bank and 15 percent of proceeds in the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. would be required to be surrendered to the Republic's For- eign Exchange Fund. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu, the external value of which is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted (trade and tour- ism receipts) basket of currencies, consisting of a bas- ket of currencies of its major trading partners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign exchange daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted twice a day within margins ranging between 0.25 percent and 0.30 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with commer- cial banks for the Government's account or for com- mercial bank operations. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for tele- graphic transfers) were VT 121.41 and VT 123.74, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 1,1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as explosives and danger- ous drugs. The importation of frozen chicken, chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, alcoholic beverages, animals and plants, transistor and telephone equipment, and TV aerials is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products—rice, sugar, flour, canned fish (espe- cially mackerel), and tobacco products—under a scheme designed to provide funds for the Vanuatu Cooperative Federation. Currently, about two dozen importers pay a commission of 3 percent (and 4 percent in the case of tobacco products) to the coop- erative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad valo- rem basis on the c.i.f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally subject to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports, based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re-expor- tation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are imposed on exports. The exportation of logs has been banned for environmental reasons since 1990 although exemptions have been granted in certain circumstances. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, and crustaceans1 are subject to authorization by the Minister of Agriculture, Fish- eries, and Forestry. Exports of copra, cocoa, and kava are channeled through the Vanuatu Commod- ities Marketing Board (VCMB); however, exports of kava can be undertaken by individuals subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on timber products and some other minor exports. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. 1 Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 VANUATU Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Boli- var. The exchange rate of the bolivar is determined by supply and demand conditions in the interbank market, although the actions of the Central Bank of Venezuela influence greatly the exchange rate as it is by far the largest seller of foreign exchange. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank quotes a daily reference exchange rate for the bolivar in terms of the U.S. dollar on the basis of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market and intervenes in the market to limit exchange rate movements in accordance with domestic and for- eign inflation differentials and international reserve objectives. The state petroleum company (PDVSA) and its Venezuelan affiliates are required to sell to the Central Bank their foreign exchange earnings, except for those needed to maintain working bal- ances at a level preapproved by the Central Bank Directorate. The Central Bank enters into agree- ment with PDVSA on the amount to be bought at Bs 0.1 below the average interbank buying rate. The Central Bank's reference exchange rate applies to official foreign exchange transactions, other than with PDVSA, that must be effected through the Central Bank. The main transactions covered are disbursements and debt-service payments associ- ated with public and publicly guaranteed external debt and imports of goods and services by the cen- tral Government. The reference rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1993 was Bs 106 per US$1. All other current and capital transactions are effected through the interbank foreign exchange market at the unified, market-determined rate. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Exchange houses are allowed to deal only in narrowly defined cash (currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks) and are not authorized to hold or trade in foreign currency deposits. Resident commercial banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange deposits, sell such deposits to, and buy them from, other commercial banks, and purchase foreign currency personal checks. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized dealers to nonresident cor- porations are prohibited, except those made to cor- respondent banks and to nonresident juridical persons in payment for balances in bolivars accru- ing to them from purchases of goods and services from Venezuela. Such operations can be performed only through commercial banks authorized to act as intermediaries in the exchange market. Tourist establishments are allowed to offer their clients for- eign exchange services in the form of purchases and sales of foreign currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks. Cover against exchange rate risk is provided through forward foreign exchange contracts negoti- ated freely between participants in the interbank market without the intervention of the Central Bank. However, as of the end of 1993, the forward foreign exchange market remained underdeveloped. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1,1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Central Bank in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank Directorate regulates and supervises foreign exchange activities accord- ing to the guidelines established by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Relations, depending on the product. The Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, over- sees the registration of foreign direct investments, contracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 VENEZUELA Imports and Import Payments Payments for Invisibles The importation of military arms must be autho- rized by the Defense Ministry; the importation of nonmilitary weapons and ammunitions must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affairs. Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing requirements for environmen- tal, health, or security reasons. At the end of 1993, import licenses covered 22 import items, primarily chemical products used in drug production. Quan- titative restrictions apply to a small number of agri- cultural imports. Payments for imports can be effected freely through the interbank market. Imports are normally financed with 90-day letters of credit opened at a domestic commercial bank or with suppliers' credits. Most customs tariffs on manufactured goods are on an ad valorem basis; there are four basic rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent, except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Pact. The com- mon external tariff on motor vehicles is 35 percent for passenger cars, 15 percent for cargo and com- mercial vehicles, and 3-5 percent for imported com- ponents and parts for vehicles assembled in the member countries. The importation of used vehi- cles or old models is allowed only for public trans- portation purposes. The trade liberalization program initiated in 1989 is now virtually complete. Specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the tariff code (e.g., mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bituminous substances). In addition to customs tariffs, all imports are sub- ject to a customs service charge of 1 percent. Storage charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Margar- ita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador extend duty-free access to each other's imports. Duty-free entry is also granted to certain goods originating from the member countries of the CARICOM region. Venezuela maintains a bilateral trade agreement with Chile, which aims at a gradual reduction of tariffs on each other's imports and at a coordination of the tariff structure with other trading partners. Venezuela has made progress in negotiating with Colombia and Mexico a trade agreement within the framework of the Andean Pact, which would pro- vide for a gradual liberalization of trade among the three countries. All payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market, except that remit- tances of dividends resulting from investments associated with debt-to-equity conversions may not exceed 10 percent of the total investment for a three-year period from the date it was registered (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds There are no controls or restrictions on exports. With the exception of the export earnings of PDVSA and its affiliates, export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements and may be sold freely in the interbank market. PDVSA exports are subject to an export surcharge of 16 percent. Exports of agricultural commodities are entitled to a fiscal credit at the rate of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value in the form of a negotiable bond that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for tax payments. Fiscal credits for manufac- tured exports have been replaced by a system of drawback of customs duties that are paid on imported inputs used in export production. Draw- backs take the form of tax reimbursement certifi- cates issued by the Ministry of Finance. Exports using inputs imported under the temporal admis- sion requirement are eligible for a drawback equiv- alent to 2 percent of the export value (f.o.b.), whereas all other exports are eligible for a draw- back rate of 5 percent of the export value. Exports of primary products and exports valued at less than $50 million are not eligible for the drawback scheme. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have monopo- lies over the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, except that foreign coins other than gold coins may not be imported for commercial purposes. Capital Foreign direct investments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors are subject to specific regulations. Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are reserved for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 549 national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered with the SIEX after the fact, and approval is automatically granted if the new invest- ment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign investments in the financial sector are allowed (beginning in 1994) in accordance with a new bank- ing law. Foreign enterprises may establish subsid- iaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commerce Code; the SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsid- iaries. The reinvestment of profits does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of capital, pro- vided that all domestic taxes have been paid. How- ever, capital repatriation in respect of investments associated with debt-to-equity conversions is not allowed for the first five years following the last conversion. Foreign investors are allowed to pur- chase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the SIEX of such pur- chases at the end of each calendar year. Certain external public debt can be converted into equity. In accordance with Decree No. 2530 of Sep- tember 28, 1992, the Central Bank will purchase the debt instruments at a price fixed at 20 percent above the average price prevailing in the market for those instruments within the ten banking days before the date of conversion. The eligible areas are infrastruc- ture (ports, bridges, and railways); aqueducts and water treatment plants; terrestrial and fluvial trans- portation; wholesale markets for agricultural prod- ucts (including construction, maintenance, and administration); educational institutions; funds for financing research and studies for Venezuelan stu- dents in Venezuela or overseas; and medical assis- tance centers. The maximum component of the investment to be covered by the conversion of the external public debt will be determined by the Min- istry of Finance. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or domestic currency-denominated public debt securi- ties), which is then deposited into a trust account opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (nor- mally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of the trust account and releases the funds in step with the implementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must sub- mit in advance a timetable for the investment and its domestic component to be financed through debt conversion.) To further ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementation of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of pri- vate external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized dealers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and other res- idents but do not normally deal in gold with the pub- lic. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezu- ela are reserved for the Central Bank. The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank. Under the terms of the agreement between the National Executive and the Central Bank, imports of non- monetary gold may be regulated. The Central Bank, may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that the exported gold bars will be reimported after undergoing processing that is not available in the country and that the reimported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement September 30. Nonresident juridical persons were permitted to sell in the interbank market bolivar balances they acquired from exports of goods and services. Prescription of Currency August 16. Payments to and receipts from Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay, in the framework of the Payment and Reciprocal Credit Agreement, were allowed to be carried out in U.S. dollars through the Central Bank or authorized banking institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 VENEZUELA Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Venezuela granted duty-free entry to goods from the member countries of the CARICOM region. April 1. Venezuela and Chile agreed on a gradual reduction and harmonization of the tariff structure, which will be completed by the end of 1997. April 14. Venezuela and Argentina agreed on tar- iff preferences for a group of products originating in their countries; the agreement would be effective until the end of 1994. January 1. The export tax on PDVSA's exports was reduced to 16 percent. Capital October 28. The new banking law was approved. The law will come into effect on January 1,1994 and allow foreign participation in the financial sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. All foreign exchange transactions take place at the rate estab- lished at foreign exchange trading floors located at the branches of the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBVN) in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Foreign exchange (only spot U.S. dollars) in this market is auctioned twice a week in Hanoi (Tuesdays and Thursdays) and three times a week in Ho Chi Minh City (Mon- days, Wednesdays, and Fridays). About 80 opera- tors, consisting of foreign exchange banks, foreign trade organizations, and companies that produce gold are licensed for the Hanoi Center and about 100 are licensed for the Ho Chi Minh City Center.1 The center obtains bids for purchase and sale of for- eign exchange before each session. Economic enti- ties that need foreign exchange for their import needs or debt-repayment obligations are allowed to submit their bids to the market seven days before the due date of payment. Banks are required to ensure that economic entities' applications for for- eign exchange purchases conform with current for- eign trade and exchange restrictions (e.g., the requirement to have an import license) and that they actually possess resources before engaging in a transaction. The final (closing) rate at each trade session is the fixing rate. Between the end of one session and the opening of the following session, all commercial banks are required to buy at the fixing rate and sell at a rate within a maximum margin of 0.5 percent of the fixing rate. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the SBVN. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which supervises the operations carried out by the foreign trade organizations (FTOs) and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade 1 An annual participation fee of $200 is levied in dong; in addi- tion, a commission of 0.01 percent is payable on each transaction in dong by purchasers of foreign exchange, with a maximum of $100. The trading floor has a management board, composed of four state bank employees and three commercial bank employ- ees; a representative of the SBVN serves as the chairman. transactions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. FTOs and firms engaged in international trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports to the State Planning Committee; revi- sions of the plans may be requested every three months. Settlements of international trade transac- tions, borrowing, and management of foreign assets are carried out mainly by the Bank of Foreign Trade (BFT).2 Most grants in convertible currencies from bilateral official donors and international organiza- tions are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign invest- ment is monitored and coordinated by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Most transactions with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are channeled through the state budget. The Ministry of Finance carries out most payments with the independent states of the former U.S.S.R. and is responsible for managing the commodity and project assistance received from them, while the State Planning Committee is responsible for monitoring trade with these states. Transactions with Cambodia are settled under a clearing arrangement in domestic currencies at a bilaterally agreed exchange rate of dong 12 per Cambodian riel 1. Bilateral payments agreements with Mali and the Syrian Arab Republic have been inoperative for several years. In 1993, Viet Nam also entered into a bilateral payments arrangement with Malaysia, but the implementing guidelines are yet to be issued. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong; however, they may not open interest-yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresi- dents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese cur- rency that have been acquired against foreign cur- 2 In 1991, the following banks were also authorized to carry out international transactions: Bank for Industry and Commerce in Saigon and Ho Chi Minh City, Export/Import Bank, Marine Bank, and Agricultural Bank. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 VIET NAM rency. Vietnamese citizens are allowed to sell foreign exchange in their possession to banks, or to deposit it into interest-bearing foreign currency bank accounts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be withdrawn for payments or trans- ferred to other units or individuals. Savings accounts in foreign currency for households were introduced in May 1991. The minimum interest rate on these accounts is 3.2 percent for time deposits and 1.5 percent for sight deposits. Imports and Exports Manufacturing firms and local authorities are allowed to conduct trade; all trade transactions require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade. Trade transactions are carried out by about 700 firms, including 140 FTOs, that produce export- able goods or purchase them from producers, but trade of certain products is a state monopoly. About 200 producers have temporary or permanent trad- ing rights, which allow them to export and import directly; about 160 foreign-owned or joint-venture firms trade directly with foreign partners. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent for- eign direct trading rights, whereas those with an annual export turnover in the range of $2-5 million may obtain temporary foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or trade with an FTO. Decree No. 114 entered into force in April 1992; it permits pri- vate commercial trading houses to engage in import and export activities. During 1993, imports of the following products were prohibited: (1) weapons, ammunition and explosives, and military equipment; (2) drugs and toxic chemicals; (3) dangerous and unhealthy cul- tural products; and (4) materials and additives required for making cigarettes. All import quotas are formally approved by the Government. The State Planning Committee, in coordination with the Ministry of Trade, may impose ad hoc temporary quantity controls. During 1993 quantitative controls were placed on fertilizers, electronic components, and sugar, among other products. The issuance of import licenses is on a shipment by shipment basis for all products. Import tariffs range up to 150 percent, with some 20 rate schedules. Machin- ery and equipment as well as medicine are exempt from tariffs, while high tariffs of 50 percent and above are applied to garments and footwear, soft drinks, and cosmetics. Automobiles are subject to a tariff of 150 percent. Local FTOs are permitted to export all commodi- ties, and local firms may import the commodities that they need for production. The procurement of exportable goods is normally unrestricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a minimum export price prevails. Only exports of rice are subject to a quota. For most products export licenses must be obtained for each shipment. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Ministers, export earnings are subject to various surrender require- ments, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this reg- ulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, the authorities have tolerated full retention of foreign exchange receipts. All receipts must be repatriated within 30 days, except for special cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such as for firms with marketing or representative activities abroad. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is limited to $3,000 for each trip, but travelers may use their own foreign exchange. Holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Remittances of profits are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by a for- eign investment code approved by the National Assembly in 1987 and amended in December 1992. The code provides for three forms of foreign invest- ment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese pri- vate enterprise or state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include (1) a 50- to 70-year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent on the remittance of profits abroad; and (3) profit taxes to be paid at rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit-making year (foreign joint ventures in priority sectors are, however, exempt from the tax in their first two years of eligibility, and the tax rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 553 is halved in the following two years). In 1990, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to participate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provisions for repatriating profits were also amended to allow the use of domestic currency to purchase and export domestically produced goods and retain the proceeds from these exports abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment for projects under $1 million; for projects over $1 million, the provin- cial authorities concerned are consulted.innce 1988, some 300 projects have been approved, with a total committed capital of about $2.4 billion; investments amounting to about $2 billion had taken place as of the end of 1992. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatriated; however, in practice, the con- version of profits in domestic currency into foreign currency for repatriation is governed by the prevail- ing foreign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by foreign investors but must be leased from the state. Beginning October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for pro- duction and business purposes have been permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license from the State Bank. The authority of the provincial council to issue gold import licenses was withdrawn in 1989. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The official exchange rate, which had been used only for the valuation of external aid, was abolished. Prescription of Currency March 29. The SBVM and Bank Negara Malaysia signed a bilateral payments agreement. (As of the end of 1993, the implementing guidelines had not been issued by the SBVM.) Imports and Exports February 1. Import quotas on automobiles and motor cycles were abolished, and 13 temporary import prohibitions were replaced with tariffs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Its exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Western Samoa's main trading part- ners. The Central Bank of Samoa has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On December 31,1993, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were US$0.3880 and US$0.3790, respectively, per WS$1. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dol- lar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the Central Bank's approval. How- ever, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank—the only authorized banks—are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount and others up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions of currencies that may be used for making or receiving payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresident Accounts Apart from allowing nonresidents, with the approval of the Central Bank, to open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two com- mercial banks, no distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments There are no import licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, which require prior approval from the Central Bank. Approvals for this item are, however, granted liberally. Imports with a c.i.f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c.i.f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draft. Imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Import duties are applied on an ad valorem basis and assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Most products are subject to a tariff of 35 percent. The tar- iff rates on machinery, agricultural inputs, and pas- senger cars are 20 percent, 5 percent, and 50 per- cent, respectively. In addition, an import excise tax is levied on the value of a limited range of imports inclusive of import duties. That tax is, for example, either 50 percent, 60 percent, or 70 percent on pas- senger cars according to engine size. Approved enterprises producing goods for export may receive full or partial exemption from customs duties and excise tax paid on capital equipment, motor vehi- cles for business use, building materials, and raw materials and components. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted when applica- tions are supported by documentary proof that cap- ital transactions are not involved. The Central Bank's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equiva- lent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allow- ances. A daily allowance of WS$300 a person is allotted for business travel, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank grants supplementary allo- cations against evidence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 555 foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by documentary evidence confirming that the benefi- ciary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remit- tances, but the amount requested must be sup- ported by documentary evidence for costs (e.g., fees, accommodation, and meals) and must be in line with the prevailing costs in the countries of study. Residents of Western Samoa with depen- dents living abroad may remit, from personal resources, an amount not exceeding WS$2,000 a donor a year to support such dependents. The Cen- tral Bank considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remit- tances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. Expatriate workers are allowed to repatriate up to 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis; their surplus earnings may be repatriated at the end of their contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic cur- rency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and on inter- est payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess ofWS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank, as does all borrowing abroad by residents, including banks. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for spe- cial family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investment in specified activities in West- ern Samoa are encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enter- prises are granted some relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital must be approved by the Central Bank; such approval is granted when the appropriate documentation is supplied. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1993 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 12.01 per US$1.1 On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 12.00 and YRls 12.02, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for 12 other currencies2 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The official rate applies to oil exports, imports of wheat, flour, and low-quality rice, as well as to pay- ments of interest and principal on public external debt, government receipts from nonresidents, offi- cial travel abroad, limited allocations of foreign exchange for students studying abroad or residents traveling abroad for medical treatment, the Govern- ment's transactions with Yemeni embassies, pay- ments for hotel bills and airline tickets by non-Yemeni nationals, and payments to nonnation- als working for the Government. Foreign embas- sies, oil companies, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agencies are authorized to sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank at the incentive rate of YRls 25 per US$1. Part of expatriates' salaries paid by oil companies are converted at the incentive rate. The incentive rate also applies to imports financed under bilateral and multilateral assistance, imports by government and public sector enterprises, and imports of liquefied petroleum gas and certain medicines. All other foreign exchange transactions take place in the parallel market. The exchange rate in the parallel market was YRls 67.50 per US$1 at the end of 1993. The parallel market is operated by money changers inside Yemen and outside the country (mainly in Saudi Arabia). Money changers in Saudi Arabia acquire foreign exchange primarily from expatriate Yemeni workers and credit the workers' accounts in the Republic of Yemen. Com- mercial banks are not permitted to operate in the parallel market but are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tour- lrThe dinar of the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (YD) is also circulating as legal tender at the rate of YRls 26 per YD 1 but is gradually being withdrawn from circulation. 2 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jor- dan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. ists) and abroad at the official exchange rate to effect import payments on behalf of customers and the Central Bank. They may hold 100 percent of for- eign exchange purchased on behalf of customers and 50 percent of the foreign exchange purchased on behalf of the Central Bank. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity budget pre- pared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Cen- tral Bank. All imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade, and licenses are sent directly to banks opening letters of credit. Commercial banks must provide an implementa- tion guarantee in Yemeni rials equivalent to 2 per- cent of the value of the import. All enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of $5,000 for each unlicensed shipment to meet emergency requirements. The value of imports under this facility is not allowed to exceed $50,000 a year for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account but are allowed to do so for the accounts of their customers. Prescription of Currency With the exception of hotel bills and airline tick- ets of nonresidents, which must be paid in foreign currency at the official rate, there are no prescrip- tion of currency requirements. Foreign Exchange Accounts Commercial banks are permitted to open freely transferable foreign currency-denominated accounts for residents and nonresidents provided that the funds in these accounts are derived from (1) foreign currency transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange receipts from licensed exports; (3) income from ser- vices rendered abroad or to nonresidents; (4) trans- fers from other freely transferable foreign currency 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 557 accounts; or (5) foreign currencies, traveler's checks, or bank checks that have been declared to customs. These accounts may be used to (1) finance licensed imports; (2) transfer foreign exchange abroad with- out prior approval from the Central Bank; (3) withdraw foreign currency in cash; (4) make transfers to another freely transferable or nontrans- ferable foreign currency account; and (5) pay expenses and bank commissions. Commercial banks are permitted to open non- transferable accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency for residents and nonresidents. Funds deposited in these accounts may derive from (1) transfers from transferable or nontransferable for- eign currency accounts; (2) foreign currency bills, traveler's checks, or bank checks, regardless of source; or (3) bank interest in the same foreign cur- rency in which the account is denominated if it is the going rate on world money markets. These accounts may be used for (1) transfers to finance licensed imports; (2) local payments for a transaction in for- eign exchange; (3) foreign transfers related to the operations of the account holder, subject to a maxi- mum of $1,500 each month or $10,000 each calendar year, with transfers in excess of these limits requiring prior approval from the Central Bank; (4) payment of foreign currency bills or other foreign exchange instruments that a bank agrees to sell, debiting the account, in order to cover the expenses of the account holder or his designee, provided that such amounts do not exceed $10,000 for each transfer; and (5) expenses and bank commissions. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank and is approved by the Supreme Council for Economic, Oil, and Invest- ment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the permission of certain government agencies, and imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat, flour, and low-quality rice may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Imports of other commodities must be self-financed; that is, 100 percent of the foreign exchange value of the import must be deposited in the importer's account at a commercial bank before a letter of credit may be issued. The importer may obtain the foreign exchange from any source other than the Central Bank, including from the parallel market. The com- mercial banks are authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self-financing. The commercial banks are thus authorized to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Central Bank. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to establish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their busi- ness activities up to a limit of $40,000 with the authorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction related to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. A con- version rate of YRls 18 per US$1 is also applied to all imports for the purpose of customs valuation. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments although amounts sold at the official exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to students studying abroad as well as to individu- als seeking medical treatment abroad; the amount allowed for treatment depends on the patient's des- tination and may not exceed $2,500. Larger amounts are granted on presentation of an official medical report. There are no restrictions on out- ward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate workers. Payments of hotel bills and airline tickets by non-Yemeni nationals must be made in foreign currencies. The exportation of Yemeni rial bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks. Exporters of products other than petroleum may use 100 percent of their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN foreign exchange receipts to finance imports either of their own inputs, or of any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Exporters do not have to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which they may retain in free foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Exporters of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. The importation of Yemeni rial bank notes is prohibited. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Public Investment Authority. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, investors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Public Investment Authority for projects deemed to be economically viable and socially acceptable; a reasonable timetable for completion and other con- ditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for five years to approved projects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unre- lated to direct investments may also be made with- out restriction. The registration of direct foreign investments and the authentication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Public Investment Authority. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Cen- tral Bank, which also maintains accounts of out- standing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the,Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 1. The incentive exchange rate applicable to sales of foreign exchange by embassies, oil compa- nies, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agen- cies was changed from YRls 18 per US$1 to YRls 25 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position as of December 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the New Zaire.1 On December 31, 1993, the official interbank rate was NZ 35 per US$1. In principle, the external value of the new zaire is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions prevailing in the foreign exchange market, with the Bank of Zaire (the cen- tral bank) quoting the rate that prevailed in the market during the previous day. In addition to the Bank of Zaire, all commercial banks and financial institutions that have obtained the required license and have access to the clearinghouse in Kinshasa are permitted to participate in the foreign exchange market. At the end of each day, all participating commercial banks and financial institutions are required to determine the total value of purchase and sales transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars with customers and with other commercial banks and financial institutions. The banks must also determine the value in new zaires of the transactions in each of the three curren- cies and report to the Bank of Zaire the calculated average effective buying and selling rates of the three currencies, as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transactions. The Bank of Zaire uses this information to arrive at the average effective exchange rate of the new zaire against the U.S. dollar. This rate is used to determine the exchange rate of the new zaire for 22 other curren- cies and units, based on the rates provided by the IMF between the U.S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned.2 These rates are then used as indicative rates at the opening of trading on the day of their publication and are applied to all government oper- ations, including debt-service payments and the transactions of government-owned enterprises. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institutions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1 percent. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign bank notes set lrThe new zai're was introduced on October 22,1993 at the con- version rate of NZ 1 to 3 million old zaires. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, European currency units, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, SDKs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5 percent. Forward transactions may be conducted in the foreign exchange market. Despite the unifica- tion of the foreign exchange market, informal arrangements under which exporters sell foreign exchange to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates are still in operation. These bilateral deals are transacted through and recorded by com- mercial banks and are subject to a commission. A substantial spread has at times existed between the official and parallel market exchange rates. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the medium- and long-term external and domestic public and publicly guaran- teed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt pol- icy, including terms and guarantees extended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guar- anteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible cur- rencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in new zaires or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 ZAIRE (CEPGL), Burundi and Rwanda, and the member countries of the Economic Community of Central African States (CEEAC)3 are made through convert- ible accounts established under arrangements con- cluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these con- vertible accounts at the end of settlement periods— each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for the CEEAC countries—are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all set- tlements (other than for re-exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de com- pensation de 1'Afrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Resident Foreign Accounts Public sector entities are not allowed to hold accounts abroad in foreign currencies. All their for- eign exchange receipts from any source must be repatriated in specific accounts opened with the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: nonresident foreign currency accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), nonresident convertible accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), nonresident ordinary accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and nonresident special accounts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts are maintained as sight deposits and may not show a debit balance. Nonresident foreign currency accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened at any authorized commercial bank without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. The opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and official multilateral organiza- tions) or for official civil and military cooperation programs. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of for- eign currencies from nonresident convertible 3Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe. accounts; (3) proceeds from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against new zaires; (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies against other foreign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or trav- eler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers of means of payment in foreign currency at banks or authorized financial institutions; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible accounts as well as from resident for- eign currency accounts; and (3) payments by autho- rized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and ser- vices; (2) purchases in the foreign exchange market of foreign currencies or any other means of pay- ment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other nonresident convertible accounts and pur- chases of bank notes or any other means of pay- ment in new zaires at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against new zaires, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in new zaires from non- resident convertible accounts; and (3) receipts in new zaires from residents for services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consu- lar and chancery fees, and other services as speci- fied by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in new zaires to residents for local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in new zaires. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 561 accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident special accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) the sale of, or rental income from, real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) the sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, commercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresi- dents. In addition, all assets denominated in new zai'res and owned by non-Zairian residents perma- nently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or trans- ferred to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective per- sons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed cap- ital owned by non-Zai'rian residents who subse- quently become nonresidents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organizations or any non- profit cultural, philanthropic, or social organiza- tions; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Government of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents are permitted to open foreign currency (RME) accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transac- tions and receipts from services, within the limits established by the Bank of Zaire. These accounts may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire publishes exchange rates. Over- drafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obligation, including import pay- ments, and funds may be transferred from one for- eign exchange account to another opened in the name of the same holder, with the exception of accounts opened by artisanal diamond and gold marketing agencies. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports apply to imports financed from these accounts. Anyone permitted to make import payments through this method (using Form I) may do so by debiting these accounts. Authorized banks may pay royalties, merchandise transport costs, services, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts on the instruction of the account holders, who provide the supporting documents required under the exchange regulations. For account holders with the requisite supporting documentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohib- ited or require special authorization from the Gov- ernment. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In gen- eral, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; an importer wishing to extend the validity period must so indicate in the import documents accompanying the declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Imports of goods intended for expansion of a capital base or for the importer's own use may be effected without a dec- laration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 per tariff item and SDR 5,000 per shipment and that the shipments are financed from the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Banks may pay freight charges only upon presentation of invoices from the carriers or their agents. The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Authorized banks are allowed to pay trans- portation and insurance costs in foreign currency only on imports for which they provide financing on an f.o.b. basis. With a few exceptions, imports are subjected to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zairian Control Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verification may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the Bank of Zaire. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign, contributions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 ZAIRE to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing for- eign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (3) imports requiring a down pay- ment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) imports requiring special authorization from the Government and imports of currency, coins, and articles imitating or bearing the monetary symbols of Zai'rian currency. The customs tariff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for cer- tain equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. Imports financed with suppliers' credits must be reported in a specific form and submitted to domes- tic banks. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Zai'rian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by OGEFREM. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sala- ries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the nontrans- ferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on pri- vate loans, and payments of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign partici- pation are authorized. Transfers of rental income received by nonresidents and residents who are for- eign nationals are suspended. Payments for com- missions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in new zaires or in foreign currency for trips originat- ing in Zaire. Zai'rian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange from banks or authorized financial institutions. Residents who are foreign nationals and who are entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain for- eign currency from authorized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living expenses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs once a month. The exportation of Zai'rian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. However, the exportation of Zai'rian bank notes and coins by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the lim- its of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must file an exchange document (dec- laration of foreign exchange commitment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, its price, and the cur- rency in which payment is to be received. Declara- tions of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Exports must be carried out and proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period, which must not exceed 45 days from the date of shipping. Exporters are authorized to receive the following in their RME accounts at authorized banks: (1) at least 35 percent of their export-generated revenue other than proceeds from prefinancing, to the extent that repatriation occurs within the legally required period of 45 days from the date of ship- ment; and (2) 100 percent of funds received as prefi- nancing for products intended for exportation. The corresponding ratios for other firms are as follows: with the exception of companies that bene- fit from special waivers from the Bank of Zaire, including Generate des carrieres et des mines du Zaire, 45 percent; Societe de developpement indust- riel et minier du Zaire, 50 percent; and Societe miniere de Bakwanga, 20 percent. The Bank of Zaire may authorize the holding abroad of a por- tion of earnings from exports. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Economic transactors may export coffee, subject to inspection and quality certificates issued respectively by the OZAC and the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF). As in the case of other export products, coffee may be exported under prefinancing contracts. Artisanal gold and diamonds may be exported only through authorized marketing agencies (comp- toirs agrees). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 563 The Bank of Zaire purchases and exports gold on its own account, along with the authorized market- ing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds and gold may be exported directly by the mining companies involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and transferred through authorized banks. A declara- tion must be filled for each transaction and checked by the bank. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to an RME account. An unlimited amount of bank notes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country. The importation of Zairian bank notes and coins is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted only at the time of liquidation, nationalization, or par- tial or total transfers of shares. Borrowed capital and equity contributions are authorized. Transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. The Bank of Zaire also guaran- tees transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and profits in respect of foreign capital covered under the provi- sions of the Investment Code. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive min- ing concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for the account of authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and diamonds by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement May 27. Public sector enterprises and private-public partnerships holding foreign exchange were required to close their accounts abroad no later than June 30, 1993 and to transfer the existing balances to new accounts to be opened with the Bank of Zaire. October 22. A new monetary unit, the new zaire, was introduced. It is divided into 100 parts, called new likuta (singular) or new makuta (plural). Its value is equal to 3 million old zaires. The exchange rate of the new zaire was set at NZ 3 per US$1, repre- senting an 11 percent devaluation compared with the last rate of the old zaire. The exchange rate of the new zaire would be determined by market forces. Proceeds from Invisibles May 27. All transactions were required to be domiciliated in a domestic bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of March 31,1994) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Most transactions, including imports under the open general license (OGL) system, take place at exchange rates determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange bureau market. A few trans- actions have taken place at rates derived from bid/ offer quotations submitted to the Bank of Zambia by authorized commercial banks. For some foreign transactions, the Bank of Zambia fixes its buying and selling rates on the basis of the weighted average of exchange rates quoted by the foreign exchange bureaus, with appropriate spreads to reflect the bank's profit margins. This rate is applied to the pur- chase of 40 percent of the export proceeds from the State Mining Company (ZCCM), all government transactions (including external borrowing and debt-service payments), and donor assistance. On December 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates were K 647.4 and K 673.3, respectively, per US$1; OGL funds were allocated at the rate of K 673.3 per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government, authorized banks, and foreign exchange bureaus in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to deal in the currencies of neigh- boring countries, on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets, subject to approval by the Bank of Zambia. In its dealings with commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.5 percent for purchases and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector, although banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to maintain an open foreign exchange position of up to $100,000 at the end of each business day. Administration of Control Authorized payments, including payments for imports, from residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an external account, or in any foreign currency. External Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by foreign embassies and missions, diplomats, and expatriate staff of the United Nations and similar international organizations are designated as external accounts. Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange control authorities before opening these accounts. Balances of external accounts may be transferred abroad or withdrawn for use in Zambia without restrictions. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited in Zambian currency. Transfers abroad of funds in these accounts are not restricted. Nonresident and resident Zambians who work for international organizations and earn foreign currencies may open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks, subject to prior approval from the Bank of Zambia. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be effected under the OGL system, which operates on the basis of a negative list.1 Imports covered by the OGL system do not require a license. Goods imported under the OGL system and valued at more than $1 million may be pro- cured under Simplified International Bidding (ICB) procedures. Personal and household effects, sam- ples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought into Zambia temporarily may also be imported All exchange controls have been abolished. The Ministry of Commerce is responsible for control of trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to exter- nal payments. 1The negative list includes gold, silver, platinum, jewelry, weapons and ammunition, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, televi- sions, radios, videocassette recorders and camcorders, and pas- senger automobiles. 564 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 565 without a license. Import licenses, issued prior to January 29,1993, are subject to a 10 percent tax cal- culated on the c.i.f. value. Payments for imports for which foreign exchange is requested from the Bank of Zambia (i.e., for Gov- ernment transactions, ZlMOIL, and Zambia Air- ways) must be made by irrevocable documentary letters of credit. For imports of goods valued up to $50,000, importers must submit one invoice price quotation; for imports valued between $50,000 and $500,000, importers are required to provide three separate invoice quotations; and for those valued at more than $500,000, importers must provide evi- dence that they have attempted to obtain the most competitive price through international competi- tive bidding. All imports that are settled with offi- cial foreign exchange are subject to preshipment inspection by international agencies, except where the f.o.b. value of each import consignment is less than $10,000. Imports are subject to a tariff with a minimum rate of 15 percent and a maximum rate of 50 percent (except for a few luxury goods). Some imports are exempt under the provisions of bilateral agree- ments, and nontraditional exporters and certain import-competing firms are exempt under the 1991 Investment Act. In addition, imported goods are subject to an "uplift factor" in computing domestic sales tax. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles except for external debt payments may be effected through foreign exchange bureaus without restriction. Remittances of profits and dividends may be made without restriction after payment of all taxes; profits earned on foreign direct investments made after January 28,1994 and those on investments made before Jan- uary 28, 1994 require prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may generally remit their salaries and other allow- ances without restriction. Payments to expatriates employed by ZCCM may be made from the com- pany's own foreign exchange holdings or they may purchase foreign exchange in the free market to effect such payments. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out Zambian or any foreign currency, but they must declare amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000. The currency declaration form required of all travelers entering Zambia was eliminated on June 19,1992. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Although export licenses are required for most goods, they are administered routinely by commer- cial banks under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of white maize and fertilizers may be subject to quantitative restric- tions when domestic supplies are short; ivory exports are prohibited. Only 40 percent of the pro- ceeds from ZCCM metal exports must be surren- dered to the Bank of Zambia; in order to receive foreign exchange, ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zambia account abroad upon receipt and receives foreign exchange from that account. Exporters of nontraditional products are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings without restriction. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that travelers may import. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in up to the equivalent of $100 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. However, all borrowings outside must be registered with the Bank of Zambia for statistical purposes. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments, provided that no tax obligations are due. Disinvestment and repatriation of capital are unrestricted, subject to verification that no tax obli- gations are due. No restrictions apply to sales of assets between foreigners and between foreigners and Zambians. Local borrowing by companies con- trolled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is not restricted. Nonresidents may participate in the treasury bill and government bond market without restriction. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. Only the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 ZAMBIA exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 22. Foreign exchange bureaus and autho- rized dealers were prohibited from levying sepa- rately commissions or charges on exchange dealings, and only internationally accepted stan- dards may be applied to commissions on sales and purchases of traveler's checks. December 22. The Bank of Zambia announced its intention to accept b id /offer quotations for foreign exchange from authorized dealers as a first step toward the introduction of an interbank foreign exchange market. The official exchange rate would continue to be calculated on the basis of a weighted average rate quoted by foreign exchange bureaus. December 27. The maximum daily open foreign currency position of foreign exchange bureaus (including foreign exchange balances in accounts with authorized dealers and cash on hand) was set at $100,000. Imports and Import Payments January 29. The 10 percent levy on imports was abolished; the levy would continue to be applied to imports which were approved by import licenses issued prior to January 29,1993. June 16. The following modifications were intro- duced to the OGL system: (1) the preferential exchange rate applied to imports under the OGL system was eliminated; (2) the Bank of Zambia would determine the exchange rate for OGL funds on the basis of the exchange rates quoted by foreign exchange bureaus for U.S. dollars; (3) domestic cur- rency cover would not be required with OGL appli- cations, but once foreign exchange is allocated, the domestic currency accounts of commercial banks held with the Bank of Zambia would be debited; (4) foreign exchange allocated under the OGL sys- tem would be disbursed only against letters of credit; and (5) goods valued at more than $1 million could be procured under ICB. November 8. The requirement that importers/ exporters seek clearance of local insurance compa- nies to obtain insurance abroad was eliminated. Payments for Invisibles February 26. Purchases of foreign exchange for ser- vice payments from a foreign exchange bureau were made subject to submission of documentary evi- dence of bona fide transaction, and such remittances abroad would be permitted only through an autho- rized dealer. Authorized dealers were permitted to make remittances abroad on behalf of persons resi- dent in Zambia from foreign exchange purchased from a foreign exchange bureau or out of their own working balances up to $2,000, except for external debt payments, and subject to adequate documenta- tion on the bona fide nature of transaction. May 12. Remittances of dividends up to 100 per- cent of after-tax profits accruing from April 1,1993 were allowed irrespective of the date of foreign investment (remittances of dividends on foreign investments undertaken under the 1991 Investment Act would continue to be limited to 75 percent). Remittances of dividends would continue to be subject to the approval of the Bank of Zambia. July 2. All restrictions on purchases of airline tickets were removed. Remittances of dividends would be permitted without reference to the Bank of Zambia, except where remittance is to be made by or on behalf of a commercial bank to its holding company or other nonresident shareholder. Authorized dealers would be allowed to remit profits of expatriate farmers, sub- ject to the appropriate documentation. Remittances of payments for services other than debt service would be allowed up to $2,500 for nonresident directors of Zambian companies. Nongovernmental expatriate workers would be allowed to transfer abroad up to $2,000 a month without the authorization of the Bank of Zambia once the agreement involving such pay- ments has been approved by the Bank and subject to the provision of appropriate documentation to the authorized dealers. Authorization of the Bank of Zambia would not be required for government offi- cials or for business travel for amounts less than $150 a day and up to $2,000 purchased from foreign exchange bureaus. There would be no limits on domestic currency that tourists and other nonresident visitors to Zambia may reconvert to foreign currency at authorized dealers, provided that proof of original conversion is submitted. Exports and Export Proceeds February 26. The period of export retention entitle- ment allowed to exporters of nontraditional prod- ucts and services was reduced from six months to one month from the date of receipt of the proceeds. The requirement that export retention certificates be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 567 issued by authorized dealers was withdrawn and certificates already issued would be converted into kwacha by March 31, 1993 or the expiration date of the certificate, whichever is earlier. August 6. Exports of maize and maize mill would be permitted only with specific authorization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries and the Bank of Zambia. August 23. The period of export retention entitle- ment allowed to exporters of nontraditional prod- ucts and services was extended from one month to three months. Capital April 5. Disinvestment and repatriation of foreign capital invested under the 1991 Investment Act were allowed under the provisions of that Act when the property is sold to a Zambian individual or juridical person, after clearance of sales contract with the Bank of Zambia, and after payment of all outstanding tax obligations. Foreign exchange would no longer be provided by the Bank of Zam- bia and must be purchased from the market. For foreign investment not covered by the 1991 Invest- ment Act, sales contracts would be examined by the Bank of Zambia on the basis of audited accounts of the company and /or the quoted stock price. Funds up to $1 million may be remitted in lump sum and thereafter in installments; unremitted funds may be invested in interest-bearing deposits or government securities. Changes During 1994 Administration of Control January 23. The Exchange Control Act was sus- pended. External Accounts March 9. All restrictions on the transfer abroad of funds from blocked accounts were removed. Payments for Invisibles March 9. The monthly limit of $2,000 on remit- tances of inducement allowances for existing con- tracts for expatriate employees with nongovernment establishment was abolished. The annual limit of $2,500 on transfers of fees to a nonresident director of a Zambian company was abolished. March 9. All exchange restrictions on the contract- ing of insurance and reinsurance transactions abroad were removed. Capital March 9. The limit on emigration allowance that an expatriate may transfer from Zambia at the time of emigration was abolished. March 9. Nonresidents were permitted to partici- pate in Treasury bills and Government bond mar- kets without restriction. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of January 1,1994) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for all currencies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on cur- rent international market rates. On December 31, 1993, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for commercial banks were US$0.1448 and US$0.1436, respectively, per Z$l. A tax of 10 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange intended for use during holiday travel. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the size of such contracts, but they must be limited to peri- ods of six to eight months, depending on the cur- rencies involved and the type of coverage. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transac- tions and, at present, quotes fixed discount and/or premium rates for major currencies. The Reserve Bank purchases forward foreign exchange at the spot preferential telex transfer rate quoted to autho- rized dealers, less 0.50 percent for three-month con- tracts, 3 percent for one-year contracts, and an additional 3 percent for each year beyond one year, up to 15 percent for a five-year contract. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot pref- erential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for six months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates (sight rates ± the margins applied by the Reserve Bank). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in keeping with the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regu- lations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars (issued periodically). Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979; the Control of Goods (open general import license) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (open general export license) Notice of 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use national cur- rencies in day-to-day payments during a transac- tion period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 569 from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Resident and nonresident individuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denomi- nated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Individual holders and authorized dealers may trade funds in these accounts at market-deter- mined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, how- ever, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange, unlisted companies, or money markets. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the open general import license (OGIL) and Export Retention Scheme (ERS), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange alloca- tion. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Committee chaired by senior officials of the Ministry of Finance, Eco- nomic Planning, and Development and are allo- cated to individual users by senior officials of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports in the commercial category include those by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sec- tor, as well as consumer goods; those in the indus- trial category consist of direct imports of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts by industrial- ists. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories according to the degree of essentiality. (In the manu- facturing sector, because of employment consider- ations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single-tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), while foreign exchange is allocated to manufacturers for a group of tariff items appropri- ate to the industrial division concerned. Under the ERS, all exporting firms acquire import rights based on their foreign exchange earn- ings and are permitted to use these rights for imports of all goods, except for a small number of items on the negative list. Import rights may be sold without restriction. Import licenses must be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. In general, import licenses are valid for 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but this period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f.o.b. basis and do not cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Under the Export Support Facility, exporters of manufactured goods may receive from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce separate foreign exchange allocations for imports of raw materials, after having used their own foreign exchange under the ERS. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submit- ted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maximum of 35 percent of the c.i.f. value for most consumer goods (up to 60 percent for vehicles), and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5 per- cent and 20 percent) equivalent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domesti- cally. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from this additional tax. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. In principle, foreign investors in the export sector are allowed to remit between 50 percent and 100 percent of after-tax profits on investments, sub- ject to certain conditions. New companies estab- lished after May 1, 1993, with foreign shareholding and not entitled to direct foreign exchange allocation may remit after-tax dividends to foreign sharehold- ers without restriction, provided that dividends are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 ZIMBABWE paid in foreign exchange through the ERS market. If direct foreign exchange allocation is used, the fol- lowing rules apply: (1) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange, "switched blocked funds," or sur- plus funds is permitted to remit the declared divi- dends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a maximum of 50 percent for five years from the beginning of operations, after which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result of the limited remittance of dividends; switched blocked funds are blocked funds purchased by a foreigner from the original owner); (2) a wholly foreign-owned com- pany with its own blocked funds is permitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared dividends, pro- vided it meets all its foreign exchange requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new joint venture that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and has at least 30 percent local partici- pation, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100 percent of its share of declared dividends, pro- vided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources. All companies established before May 1, 1993 are permitted to remit dividends through the ERS in amounts in excess of the above level, based on the percentage of their post-May 1993 investment in the total net assets of the company. Currently, under the ERS 50 percent of payments for technology transfers, management and other advisory services, commis- sions, and fees for repair services may be made with retained foreign exchange. However, the Reserve Bank must first grant the commercial banks permis- sion to provide the initial 50 percent. Outward remit- tances in respect of services are subject to a 20 percent tax; in cases that fall under double taxa- tion agreements, the tax rate is 10 percent. Foreign companies established prior to September 1979, which are limited to dividend remittability of 25 per- cent of net after-tax profits, were permitted to remit up to 50 percent of net after-tax profits if exports comprise more than 25 percent of total sales and all remittances are made using ERS. Firms established prior to May 1, 1993, are per- mitted to make larger dividend remittances, on a year-by-year basis, up to a cumulative maximum of 100 percent of net after-tax profits, if export sales increase relative to the previous year. The rate of increase in dividend remittance is set at one-half of the percentage increase in exports, provided that the base value of exports is at least 10 percent of total sales. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after-tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an export-oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through a combina- tion of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds (subject to a minimum matching formula of 50/50) is allowed to remit dividends of up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the minimum 30 percent local participation crite- rion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. After five years, the company can remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$80Q for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are entitled to one-half this amount.) The allowance may be accumulated for up to three years but is not granted in advance. The basic for- eign exchange allowance for import-related busi- ness travel is Z$600 a day, up to a maximum of Z$6,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$12,000; for export-related business travel, the exchange allowance is Z$700 a day, up to a maxi- mum of Z$8,000 a trip and Z$16,000 a year. The lim- its for business travel are the amounts that authorized dealers can provide; applications for business travel allowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank and are treated favorably, especially those for export-related trips. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for cer- tain diploma and degree courses. All applications for educational allowances must be submitted to the Reserve Bank for approval. For medical treat- ment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$200 a day each for the patient and any necessary accom- panying companion for a maximum of 30 days. Applications for additional amounts must be sub- mitted to the Reserve Bank for approval. Remit- tances of up to Z$500 for subscriptions to learned or technical societies and Z$100 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$250. Remittances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$100 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$200 a month for each family unit, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 571 Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank. Beginning March 27,1984, the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In excep- tional and deserving cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. Since April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allow- ance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allow- ances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons (under 60 years of age) with dependents, Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A further release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of their travel allowance, not more than Z$250 in Zimbabwean currency, together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$250 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimba- bwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. All nonresi- dent travelers are required to pay an airport tax of US$20 on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must have licenses to export the fol- lowing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac- tured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carry- ing liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the Reserve Bank). Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean cur- rency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries can use national currencies in the settlement of pay- ments during a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be set- tled in convertible currencies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance pay- ment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed before exportation by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Under the ERS, exporters acquire import rights equivalent to 50 percent of their export proceeds and are allowed to use these rights either to make payments for imports and services or to obtain enti- tlements for foreign exchange, which may be sold at negotiated prices. The retention ratio was raised to 35 percent on January 1,1993, and to 50 percent on April 1. Authorized dealers are the appointed trad- ing agencies in the ERS. They are required to dis- play indicative premium rates on a daily basis and to submit to the Reserve Bank monthly reports on the utilization of ERS entitlements, including the amount of commission fees charged. An export subsidy in the form of tax exemption at the rate of 9 percent of the f.o.b. value is granted on specified exports of manufactured products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable period of time. Under the ERS, residents performing services abroad may also retain a portion of their earnings. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean cur- rency up to a maximum of Z$250. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 ZIMBABWE Outward transfers of capital are controlled. How- ever, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation through the ERS up to the value of capital invested less dividends trans- ferred abroad. The balance may be transferred only through the established medium of six-year exter- nal government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. Repatriation may be permitted without restriction, if funds under the ERS are used to acquire foreign exchange and if dividends were not remitted with such funds. The repatriation of capital invested before Sep- tember 1,1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed, within limits, to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such applica- tion is approved, the capital is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years (for individuals) or 20 years (for firms). Repatria- tion at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sales prices of net equity is allowed. Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in Gov- ernment of Zimbabwe external bonds with a matu- rity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of a former resident's Zimba- bwean pension is guaranteed under the constitu- tion. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zimba- bwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of up to 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as determined by the Reserve Bank. Blocked funds can be utilized for investment by third parties, foreign as well as domestic, on freely negotiated terms; as new ven- ture capital, the total investment is eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must be reinvested in Zimbabwe for at least five years. Since April 27, 1993, gold producers under- taking new expansion projects have been permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. On May 1, 1993, foreign investors were per- mitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Market currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 25 percent of the total equity of the company, with a limit of 5 percent for one investor. These limits are in addi- tion to any existing foreign shareholdings in the companies. The initial investment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted with- out restriction. Foreign investors may also invest up to a maximum of 15 percent of the assets brought to Zimbabwe in primary issues of bonds and stocks. Locally owned companies (greater than 75 per- cent equity owned by residents) may buy blocked funds from the original owners for investment pur- poses by using ERS funds, provided that they export at least 75 percent of their output. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal or certain other specified metals and minerals without an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intend- ing to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or princi- pal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permis- sion can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd., is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the follow- ing month. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 573 Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The tax on sale of foreign exchange for holi- day travel was reduced to 10 percent from 20 percent. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 1. Resident and nonresident individuals were allowed to open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers and to trade funds in these accounts _at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and con- verted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The Export Revolving Fund was replaced by Export Support Facility under which exporters of manufactured goods may obtain for- eign exchange, after having used their own ERS for imports of raw materials. Payments for Invisibles March 1. The amount of foreign currency that travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out was increased to the equivalent of Z$250 from the equivalent of Z$200. June 1. Companies established after May 1, 1993 with foreign shareholding and not entitled to direct foreign exchange allocation were permitted to remit after-tax dividends to foreign shareholders without restriction, provided that these dividends were paid in foreign exchange through the ERS market. Junel. Companies established before May 1,1993 were allowed to remit dividends through the ERS in excess of the amount that is based on their post-May 1993 investment in the total net assets of the company. August 1. Fifty percent of selected invisible pay- ments (business travel, marketing expenses for export promotion, technical, professional and administrative fees and commissions) were allowed to be made through the ERS. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The retention ratio was raised to 35 percent. April 1. The retention ratio was raised to 50 percent. Capital April 27. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects were permitted access to off- shore financing in the form of gold loans. May 1. Foreign investors were permitted to par- ticipate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange Market provided that they finance any purchase of shares with foreign currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. Purchase of shares by foreign investors would be limited to 25 percent of the total equity of the company, with limit for a single investor of 5 percent of the shares on offer. These limits would be in addition to any existing foreign shareholdings in the companies. The initial investment plus any capital gains and dividend income would be freely remittable. For- eign investors were also permitted to invest up to a maximum of 15 percent of the assets brought to Zimbabwe in primary issues of bonds and stocks. Locally owned companies (greater than 75 per- cent equity owned by residents) would be allowed to buy blocked funds from the original owners for investment purposes by using ERS funds provided that they export at least 75 percent of their output. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Community: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EU-Wide Basis During 19931 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 8. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of outer rings of tapered roller bearings originating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 55/93). January 8. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of synthetic fibers of polyesters originating in India and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 54/93). March 5. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of bicycles originating in the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 550/93). March 30. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferro-chrome with a carbon content by weight of maximum 9.5 percent (low car- bon ferro-chrome) originating in Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Commission Reg- ulation No. 797/93). April 15. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5" microdisks) originating in Japan, Taiwan Province of China, and the People's Republic of China (Commis- sion Regulation No. 920/93). April 26. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Japan (Council Regulation No. 993/93). May 14. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes, of iron or non-alloy steel, originating in Hun- gary, Poland, and Croatia (Council Regulation No. 1189/93). June 14. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of magnesium oxide originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regula- tion No. 1473/93). July 30. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ethanolamine originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 2172/93). August 23. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of woven polyolefin sacks origi- nating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 2346/93). Source: Official Journals of the European Union. September 6. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain photo albums origi- nating in the People's Republic of China (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2477/93). September 13. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of artificial corundum originat- ing in the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Council Regulation No. 2552/93). September 20. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferro-silicon originating in South Africa and the People's Republic of China (Commission Regulation No. 2581/93). September 28. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of isobutanol originating in the Russian Federation (Commission Regulation No. 2720/93). September 28. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on,imports of ferro-chrome with a carbon content by weight of maximum 0.5 percent (low car- bon ferro-chrome), originating in Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Council Regula- tion No. 2717/93). October 18. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5" microdisks) originating in Japan, Taiwan Prov- ince of China, and the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 2861/93). October 20. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain electronic weighing scales originating in Singapore and the Republic of Korea (Council Regulation No. 2887/93). October 26. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain gas-fueled, nonrefill- able pocket flint lighters originating in Thailand (Commission Regulation No. 2957/93). October 29. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of television camera systems originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 3029/93). December 2. Amended antidumping measures were imposed on imports of ferro-silicon originating in Brazil, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Norway, the Russian Federation, Sweden, Ukraine, and Venezuela (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3359/93). December 6. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of dead-burned (sintered) mag- nesia originating in the People's Republic of China (Council Regulation No. 3386/93). 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 575 2. Extension January 8. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of certain types of electronic microcircuits known as DRAMs (dynamic random access memo- ries) originating in the Republic of Korea was extended (Council Regulation No. 53/93). March 8. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of certain seamless pipes and tubes of iron or nonalloy steel originating in Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slovak Republic was extended (Council Regulation No. 545/93). July 28. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of ferro-chrome with a carbon content by weight of maximum 0.5 percent (low carbon ferro-chrome) originating in Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine was extended (Council Regulation No. 2078/93). August 4. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of certain magnetic disks (3.5" microdisks) originating in Japan, Taiwan Province of China, and the People's Republic of China was extended (Coun- cil Regulation No. 2206/93). December 6. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of ferro-silicon originating in South Africa and the People's Republic of China was extended (Council Regulation No. 3371/93). December 20. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of fluorspar originating in the People's Republic of China was extended (Council Regulation No. 3529/93). 3. Elimination May 18. Antidumping duty on imports of paint, distemper, varnish, and similar brushes originating in the People's Republic of China was eliminated (Commission Decision No. 93/325/EEC). June 16. Definitive antidumping duties on imports of electronic typewriters originating in Japan were eliminated (Commission Decision No. 93/376/EEC). June 22. Antidumping duties on certain imports of gas-fueled, nonrefillable pocket flint lighters origi- nating in the People's Republic of China were elimi- nated (Commission Decision No. 93/377/EEC). July 19. Antidumping duties on imports of com- pact discs originating in Taiwan Province of China, Singapore, and Malaysia were eliminated (Commis- sion Decision No. 93/413/EEC). August 24. Antidumping duties on imports of cer- tain compact disc players originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea were eliminated (Council Reg- ulation No. 2347/93). September 6. Antidumping duties on imports of bicycles originating in Taiwan Province of China were eliminated (Commission Decision No. 93/485 / EEC). September 13. Definitive antidumping duty on imports of ball bearings with a maximum external diameter exceeding 30 mm. originating in Japan was eliminated (Council Regulation No. 2554/93). September 28. Antidumping duties on imports of unwrought manganese containing more than 96 percent by weight of manganese originating in the People's Republic of China were eliminated (Commission Decision No. 93/519/EEC). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 19. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 88/93). January 26. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 133/93). February 2. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 218/93). February 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 270/93). February 15. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Austria (Commission Regulation No. 337/93). February 22. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Com- mission Regulation No. 393/93). February 24. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Austria (Commission Regulation No. 412/93). March 1. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey and preferential customs duty on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey suspended (Commission Regulation No. 474/93). March 11. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 574/93). April 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 822/93). April 6. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commission Regu- lation No. 830/93). April 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 846/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 APPENDIX April 15. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 884/93). May 11. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 1149/93). May 17. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Chile (amending Regulation No. 846/93 (Commission Regulation No. 1206/93)). May 24. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 1249/93). June 4. Countervailing charge was introduced on apricots originating in Tunisia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1389/93). June 11. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 1453/93). June 15. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Chile (amending Regulation No. 846/93 (Commission Regulation No. 1467/93)). June 15. Countervailing charge wa£ introduced on apricots originating in Tunisia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1468/93). June 17. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 1491/93). June 21. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in South Africa (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1522/93). June 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Argentina (Commission Regu- lation No. 1586/93). June 24. Countervailing charge was introduced on cherries originating in Hungary (Commission Regu- lation No. 1602/93). June 29. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in South Africa (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1677/93). June 30. Definitive countervailing charge was imposed on imports of ball bearings with a maximum external diameter not exceeding 30 mm. originating in Thailand (Council Regulation No. 1781/93). July 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Finland (Commission Regu- lation No. 1819/93). July 8. Countervailing charge was introduced on pears originating in South Africa (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1832/93). July 8. Countervailing charge was introduced on pears originating in Australia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1831/93). July 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on pears originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 1868/93). July 16. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Finland (Commission Regu- lation No. 1929/93). July 27. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2051/93). August 4. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plums originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2201/93). August 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2221/93). August 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2269/93). August 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of prune originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2343/93). August 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on table grapes originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 2342/93). August 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2341/93). August 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2339/93). August 27. Countervailing charge was introduced on prunes originating in Hungary (repealing Regula- tion No. 2343/93 (Commission Regulation No. 2388/ 93)). September 8. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2485/93). September 16. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Hungary (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2550/93). September 21. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in South Africa (Com- mission Regulation No. 2584/93). September 22. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in New Zealand (Com- mission Regulation No. 2599/93). September 27. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in South Africa (repealing Commission Regulation No. 2584/93 (Commission Regulation No. 2641/93)). October 1. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in South Africa (amending Commission Regulation No. 2641/93 (Commission Regulation No. 2721/93)). October 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in New Zealand, amending Regulation No. 2599/93 (Commission Regulation No. 2744/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 577 October 25. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Hungary (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2936/93). November 4. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 3058/93). November 10. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (repeal- ing Commission Regulation No. 3058/93). November 16. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (amending Regulation No. 3113/93 (Commission Regulation No. 3150/93)). November 16. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3151/93). November 23. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (amend- ing Commission Regulation No. 3151/93 (Com- mission Regulation No. 3209/93)). November 29. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (amending Com- mission Regulation No. 3151/93 (Commission Regu- lation No. 3270/93)). December 3. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh Clementines originating in Morocco (Com- mission Regulation No. 3340/93). December 10. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh Clementines originating in Morocco (amending Regulation No. 3340/93 (Commission Regulation No. 3398/93)). 2. Elimination January 13. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 52/93). February 9. Countervailing charge on fresh Clemen- tines originating in Morocco was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 291/93). February 17. Countervailing charge on fresh lem- ons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 355/93). February 17. Countervailing charge on fresh lem- ons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 356/93). March 8. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 530/93). April 16. Countervailing charge on tomatoes origi- nating in Turkey was eliminated (Commission Regu- lation No. 903/93). April 22. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 949/93). June 29. Countervailing charge on apples originat- ing in the United States was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1676/93). July 8. Countervailing charge on lemons originat- ing in South Africa was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1833/93). July 13. Countervailing charge on cherries origi- nating in Hungary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1890/93). August 6. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2231/93). August 13. Countervailing charge on prunes origi- nating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2280/93). August 23. Countervailing charge on pears origi- nating in Australia was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2340/93). August 25. Countervailing charge on apples origi- nating in Chile was eliminated (Commission Regula- tion No. 2358/93). September 17. Countervailing charge on apples originating in New Zealand was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2568/93). September 29. Countervailing charge on apples originating in Hungary was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2661/93). October 18. Countervailing charge on apples origi- nating in New Zealand was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2841/93). October 22. Countervailing charge on apples origi- nating in South Africa was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2922/93). November 3. Countervailing charge on apples orig- inating in Hungary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3039/93). November 19. Countervailing charge on fresh lem- ons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3191/93). December 2. Countervailing charge on tomatoes originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3321/93). December 15. Countervailing charge on fresh clem- entines originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 3440/93). Community Tariff Quotas 1. Establishment February 1. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for frozen peas originating in Sweden (Coun- cil Regulation No. 221/93). February 1. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for fresh or dried hazelnuts, shelled or not, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 APPENDIX in Turkey (Council Regulation originating No. 222/93). February 1. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Israel (Council Regulation No. 223/93), February 1. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and Egypt (Council Regu- lation No. 239/93). February 1. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus (Council Regulation No. 240/93). February 8. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural and fishery products originating in certain EFTA countries (Council Regu- lation No. 303/93). April 5. Community tariff quotas were established for beer made from malt originating in Malta (Coun- cil Regulation No. 831/93). April 19. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for cod and fish of the species Boreogadus saida originating in Norway (Council Regulation No. 928/93). April 23. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain mixtures of malt sprouts and barley screenings (Council Regulation No. 992/93). April 26. Community tariff quotas and ceilings were established for certain agricultural and indus- trial products originating in Romania (Council Regu- lation No. 1014/93). June 14. Temporary suspension of the autonomous community tariff quotas was applied on a number of industrial products (in the microelectronics and related sectors) (Council Regulation No. 1572/93). June 24. Temporary suspension of the autonomous community tariff quotas was applied on certain industrial products intended to equip the free zones of the Azores and Madeira (Council Regulation No. 1657/93). June 25. Community tariff quotas were established for certain agricultural products originating in Cyprus, Morocco, Israel, Tunisia, and Egypt (Council Regulation No. 1678/93). June 25. Community tariff quotas were established for apricot pulp originating in Turkey (Council Reg- ulation No. 1679/93). June 30. Community tariff quotas were established for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) States (Council Regu- lation No. 1806/93). July 12. Community tariff quotas were established for bulls, cows, and heifers, other than those intended for slaughter, of certain Alpine breeds (Council Regulation No. 1919/93). July 12. Community tariff quotas were established for heifers and cows, other than those intended for slaughter, of certain mountain breeds (Council Regu- lation No. 1918/93). July 22. Community tariff quotas were established for herring, fresh or chilled, originating in Sweden (Council Regulation No. 2105/93). September 21. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain melons originating in Israel (Coun- cil Regulation No. 2605/93). September 21. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for freshly cut flowers and flower buds, origi- nating in Cyprus, Israel, Jordan, or Morocco (Council Regulation No. 2604/93). December 10. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural and industrial prod- ucts (Council Regulation No. 3466/93). December 10. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain hand-woven fabrics, pile, and che- nille (Council Regulation No. 3510/93). December 10. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain hand-made products (Council Reg- ulation No. 3509/93). December 16. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain fruits and fruit juices (Council Reg- ulation No. 3636/93). December 16. Community tariff quotas bound in GATT were established for certain agricultural and industrial products (Council Regulation No. 3637/93). December 20. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain mixtures of malt sprouts and barley screenings (Council Regulation No. 3569/93). December 22. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain industrial products (Council Regu- lation No. 3672/93). December 22. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain wines originating in Bulgaria, Hun- gary, and Romania (Council Regulation No. 3671/93). Common Customs Tariffs 1. Application January 7. Common customs tariff was applied to fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 15/93). 2. Re-establishment February 16. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 6403 originating in Indone- sia and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 342/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 579 March 25. Common customs tariff on products of Category 9 (Order No. 40.0090) originating in Indo- nesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 711/93). April 6. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 8528 originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 837/93). April 22. Common customs tariff on products of Category 4 (Order No. 40.0040) originating in Indo- nesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 964/93). April 22. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 8521 originating in Singapore, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 963/93). April 27. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3102.10.10 originating in Latvia and Lithuania, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1002/93). May 3. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 6913 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1088/93). May 6. Common customs tariff on products of Category 37 (Order No. 40.0370) originating in Indo- nesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1119/93). May 6. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 37 and 39 (Order Nos. 40.0370 and 40.0390) originating in Pakistan, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1117/93). May 6. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 24 and 39 (Order Nos. 40.0240 and 30.0390) originating in India, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1118/93). May 7. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3923.21.00 originating in China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1136/93). May 7. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3904 originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1137/93). May 7. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 6913 originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1138/93). May 7. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3817 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1139/93). May 10. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 8712.00 originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1145/93). May 13. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Codes 3102.30, 3102.40, and 3102.80.00 originating in Lithuania, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1178/93). May 17. Common customs tariff on products of Category 22 (Order No. 40.0220) originating in Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1216/93). May 19. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 8516.50.00 originating in the People's Republic of China and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1246/93). June 4. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 6403 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1393/93). June 4. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 9105 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1394/93). June 8. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 9103 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 APPENDIX No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1409/93). June 8. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Codes ex 9101 and ex 9102 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 1410/93). June 8. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 7013 originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1411/93). June 8. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402 originating in Malaysia and the Philippines, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1412/93). June 9. Common customs tariff on products of Category 161 (Order No. 42.1610) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1425/93). June 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 21 and 36 (Order Nos. 40.0210 and 40.0360) originating in Indonesia, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regu- lation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1426/93). June 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 8, 9, and 40 (Order Nos. 40.0080, 40.0090, and 40.0400) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regu- lation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1427/93). June 11. Common customs tariff on products of CN Code 3102.40 originating in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, to which the tariff ceilings of Council Regulation No. 3918/92 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1447/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 5,26, and 59 (Order Nos. 40.0050,40.0260, and 40.0590) originating in India, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regu- lation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1508/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 59, 109, and 159 (Order Nos. 40.0590, 40.1090, and 42.1590) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1509/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 6 and 18 (Order Nos. 40.0060 and 40.0180) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1510/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 24 and 39 (Order Nos. 40.0240 and 40.0390) originating in Indonesia, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regu- lation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1511/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 63 and 100 (Order Nos. 40.0630 and 40.1000) originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1512/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 66, 69, 75, and 118 (Order Nos. 40.0660, 40.0690, 40.0750, and 42.1180) originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1526/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 22, 23, and 75 (Order Nos. 40.0220, 40.0230, and 40.0750) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1527/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 117 (Order No. 42.1170) originating in Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1528/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 23 (Order No. 40.0230) originating in Indo- nesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1529/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating in Bul- garia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1530/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 16 (Order No. 40.0160) originating in Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1531/93). June 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 7 (Order No. 40.0070) originating in Malay- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 581 sia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1532/93). June 22. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 4106.20.00 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3821/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1590/93). June 22. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Codes ex 4202 and ex 4203 originat- ing in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1591/93). July 1. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 4106.20.00 originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1778/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Category 28 (Order No. 40.0280) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1872/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 19 and 68 (Order Nos. 40.0190 and 40.0680) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/ 90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1873/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 27 and 84 (Order Nos. 40.0270 and 40.0840) originating in India, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1874/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Category 65 (Order No. 40.0650) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1876/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Category 39 (Order No. 40.0390) originating in Bul- garia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1875/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products of Category 75 (Order No. 40.0750) originating in Brazil and Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1877/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Codes 2937.21.00 and 2937.29.10 orig- inating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1878/93). July 12. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3817 originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1879/93). July 14. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code ex 4104 originating in Argentina, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1906/93). July 14. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 2817.00.00 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1907/93). July 14. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code ex 4203, originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1908/93). July 19. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2918.14.00 originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1952/93). July 19. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 4820.50.00 originating in the Repub- lic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1954/93). July 19. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Codes 6404 and 6405.90.10 originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1953/93). July 19. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3802.10.00 originating in the People's Republic of China to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1955/93). July 19. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code ex 8528 originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1956/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 APPENDIX July 19. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code ex 4104 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 1957/93). August 2. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 2929.90.00 originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2176/93). August 4. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Codes 3903, ex 3915, and ex 3920 orig- inating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential Tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2211/93). August 4. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3923.21.00 originating in Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2212/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 16,18,42, and 127 A (Order Nos. 40.0160, 40.0180,40.0420, and 42.1271) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2310/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 65 (Order No. 40.0650) originating in Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2311/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 90 (Order No. 40.0900) originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2312/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating in Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2313/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Category 97 (Order No. 40.0970) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2314/93). August 18. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 5,20, and 33 (Order Nos. 40.0050,40.0200, and 40.0330) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangement set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2315/93). August 24. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3923.21.00. originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2350/93). August 24. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3503.00.10 originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2351/93). August 24. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3817 originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2352/93). September 1. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 47, 86, and 90 (Order Nos. 40.0470, 40.0860, and 40.0900) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2445/93). September 1. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 48 and 55 (Order Nos. 40.0480 and 40.0550) originating in India, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2446/93). September 1. Common customs tariff on products of Category 48 (Order No. 40.0480) originating in Bulgaria, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2447/93). September 7. Common customs tariff on products of Category No. 35 (Order No. 40.0350) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2478/93). September 7. Common customs tariff on products of Category Nos. 14, 20, and 26 (Order Nos. 40.0140, 40.0200, and 40.0260) originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2479/93). September 7. Common customs tariff on products of Category No. 16 (Order No. 40.0160) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2480/93). September 7. Common customs tariff on products of Category No. 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 583 in Iran, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2481/93). September 7. Common customs tariff on products of Category No. 31 (Order No. 40.0310) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2482/93). September 13. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 1 and 26 (Order Nos. 40.0010 and 40.0260) originating in Indonesia, to which the pref- erential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regu- lation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 2523/93). September 13. Common customs tariff on products of Category 35 (Order No. 40.0350) originating in Pakistan and Malaysia, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2524/93). September 13. Common customs tariff on products of Category 97 (Order No. 40.0970) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2525/93). September 13. Common customs tariff on products of Category 38 B (Order No. 40.0385) originating in Bulgaria, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2526/93). September 13. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 58 and 144 (Order Nos. 40.0580 and 40.140) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2527/93). September 16. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 6911 originating in the Philip- pines, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2557/93). September 16. Common customs tariff on products of Category 38 A (Order No. 40.0381) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 2558/93). September 16. Common customs tariff on products of Category 68 (Order No. 40.0680) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2559/93). September 21. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2932.12.00 originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2592/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Category 12 (Order No. 40.0120) originating in the Philippines, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2687/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Category 13 (Order No. 40.0130) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832.90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2688/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Category 78 (Order No. 40.0780) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2692/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 156 and 157 (Order Nos. 42.1560 and 42.1570) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2693/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on prod- ucts of Categories 17 and 68 (Order Nos. 40.0170 and 40.0680) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2689/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Category 58 (Order No. 40.0580) originating in Iran, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2691/93). September 29. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 17 and 85 (Order Nos. 40.0170 and 40.0850) originating in Bulgaria, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 2690/93). October 4. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 6911 originating in Sri Lanka, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2740/93). October 4. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 9503 originating in the People's ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 APPENDIX Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2742/93). October 4. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Code 3503.00.10 originating in Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2741/93). October 18. Common customs tariff on products fall- ing within CN Codes 3102.30 and 3102.80.00 originat- ing in Poland, to which the tariff ceilings set out in Council Regulation No. 3918/92 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2835/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Codes 2523 originating in Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Republic, to which the tariff ceilings set out in Council Regulation No. 3918/92 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2872/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of CN Codes 3102.10.10, ex 7304, ex 7305, and ex 7306 originating in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Slo- venia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia, for which tariff ceilings were opened by Council Regulation No. 478/83, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2865/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 112 (Order No. 40.1120) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2910/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 109 (Order No. 40.1090) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2909/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 97 and 114 (Order Nos. 40.0970 and 40.1140) originating in Brazil, to which the preferen- tial tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2908/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 100 (Order No. 40.1000) originating in the People's Republic of China, India, and Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2907/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 74 (Order No. 40.0740) originating in the People's Republic of China and India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2906/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 41 (Order No. 40.0410) originating in India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2905/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 124 (Order No. 42.1240, 01240) originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2904/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 113 (Order No. 40.1130) originating in India and Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2903/93). October 20. Common customs tariff on products of Category 75 (Order No. 40.0750) originating in Thai- land, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2902/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 22,29, and 78 (Order Nos. 40.0220,40.0290, and 40.0780), originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2975/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 12 and 24 (Order Nos. 40.0120 and 40.0240) originating in Malaysia, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 2974/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 9 and 78 (Order Nos. 40.0090 and 40.0780) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tar- iff arrangement set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2973/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Category 74 (Order No. 40.0740) originating in Paki- stan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2972/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Category 35 (Order No. 40.0350) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2971/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 585 October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Category 22 (Order No. 40.0220) originating in the Philippines, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 2970/93). October 28. Common customs tariff on products of Category 5 (Order No. 40.0050) originating in Brazil, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 2969/93). November 3. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code ex 8528 originating in Indone- sia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3047/93). November 3. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2917.20.10 originating in Romania, to which the tariff ceilings set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 1014/93 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3033/93). November 4. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2933.71.00 originating in Poland, to which the tariff ceilings set out in Council Regulation No. 3918/93 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3051/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 15,18, and 83 (Order Nos. 40.0150,40.0180, and 40.0830) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3092/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Category 65 (Order No. 40.0650) originating in Argentina, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3093/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Category 96 (Order No. 40.0960) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3094/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Category 124 (Order No. 42.1240) originating in Belarus, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3095/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 65 and 72 (Order Nos. 40.0650 and 40.0720) originating in the Republic of Korea, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3096/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 17, 19, and 76 (Order Nos. 40.0170, 40.0190, and 40.0760) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Coun- cil Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3097/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 19,26, and 28 (Order Nos. 40.0190,40.0260, and 40.0280) originating in Pakistan, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3098/93). November 9. Common customs tariff on products of Categories 28 and 76 (Order Nos. 40.0280 and 40.0760) originating in Thailand, to which the prefer- ential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regula- tion No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3099/93). November 25. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 7103 originating in Mexico, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 3249/93). November 25. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2924.29.30 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3250/93). November 25. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 8712.00 originating in Malaysia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3251/93). November 25. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 3923.21.00 originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3252/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code ex 8471 originating in Sin- gapore, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3302/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 8712.00 originating in Indo- nesia and Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3303/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Code 2921.42.10 originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 APPENDIX out in Council Regulation No. 3831/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3304/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products of Category 3 (Order No. 40.0033) originating in India, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-estab- lished (Commission Regulation No. 3305/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products of Category 43 (Order No. 40.0430) originating in the People's Republic of China, to which the preferential tariff arrangements set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3307/93). November 30. Common customs tariff on products of Category 37 (Order No. 40.0370) originating in Thailand, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3306/93). December 9. Common customs tariff on products falling within CN Codes 3904.10.00, 3904.21.00, and 3904.22.00 originating in Hungary, the Czech Repub- lic, and the Slovak Republic, to which the tariff ceil- ings set out in Council Regulation No. 3918/92 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3374/93). December 13. Common customs tariff on products of Category 17 (Order No. 10.0170) originating in Indonesia, to which the preferential tariff arrange- ments set out in Council Regulation No. 3832/90 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3420/93). December 13. Common customs tariff on products of CN Codes 7202.41 and 7202.49 originating in the Republics of Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovenia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for which tariff ceilings were opened by Council Regula- tion No. 478/83, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3423/93). December 27. Common customs tariff on fresh lem- ons originating in Cyprus was re-established (Com- mission Regulation No. 3589/93). 3. Repeal or Suspension February 25. Common customs tariff on certain mix- tures of malt sprouts and barley screenings was sus- pended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 470/93). April 5. Common customs tariff on imports of mix- tures of residues of the maize starch industry and of residues from the extraction of maize germ oil obtained by wet milling was suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 833/93). May 13. Common customs tariff on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel was repealed (Commission Regulation No. 1173/93). June 7. Common customs tariff on a number of agricultural products was suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 1421/93). June 14. Common customs tariff on certain indus- trial products (in the chemical and allied sectors) was suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 1573/93). December 7. Common customs tariff on a number of products intended for the construction, mainte- nance, and repair of aircraft was suspended tempo- rarily (Council Regulation No. 3543/93). December 10. Common customs tariff on certain industrial products (in the microelectronics and related sectors) was suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 3545/93). December 16. Common customs tariff on certain fishery products was suspended temporarily (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3568/93). December 20. Common customs tariff on certain agricultural products originating in Turkey was repealed (Council Regulation No. 3639/93). Preferential Tariff Arrangements 1. Re-establishment January 12. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Morocco was re-established (Commission Regula- tion No. 44/93). March 17. Preferential customs duty on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 617/93). July 16. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 1928/93). December 17. Preferential customs duty on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3475/93). December 17. Preferential customs duty on imports of small-flowered roses originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3476/93). December 20. Preferential customs duty on products falling within CN Codes 2836.20.00 and 2836.30.00 originating in Poland, to which the tariff ceilings set out in Council Regulation No. 3918/92 apply, was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3502/93). December 21. Preferential customs duty on imports of multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 587 Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3523/93). December 21. Preferential customs duty on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3522/93). December 27. Preferential customs duty on imports of large-flowered roses originating in Israel was suspended, and the common customs tariff duty on imports of large-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel was re-established (Commission Regulation No. 3594/93). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 594. 588 A f n a h g i s t n a , s I l a m i c S t a t e o f A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A o g n l a A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a B a h a m s a , T e h B h a r a i n B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g B e i l e z B n e i n B u h t n a B o i l v i a B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B u l a g i r a B u r k i a n F s a o A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (10) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . C d a h C h l i e C a n h i C o o l m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C 6 t e d ' l o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i a c n i D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E s t n o i a E t p o h i i a F i j i n F i l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a G a m b i a , T e h G o e r g i a G e r m y n a G a n a h Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 589 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first I *8 £ « •i a a If ^ co 1 I « -s 1 8 1 a I * £ ^ 1 -i -o s c 3 « s I 1 ! 1 ! I 1 1 f f 1 1 | i r I 1 t 1 1 { 1 I j I u o u o u u i E E E ^ J s J s A A J S ^ . S ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ i S ;^ A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (») cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (11) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 594. 590 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 591 K u w a t i K y r z y g R b u p e i l c L o a P s e p o e l ' D e m . R p e . L a t v i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a M n o d e c a i a , f o r m e r Y o g u s l v a R b u p e i l o c f M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M i c r s e n o i a , F d e . S t a t s e o f M o l a v o d M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m b i e u q M n a y m a r N a m i b i a N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first C/3 I T3 "3 <U O< I f i l l. I r, i 111 J *1 s 11i ] 1111! i! h t J l S S I S S i s l i J l l i i i s s l l M fl i H p H Q D 4 P 4 D < c / ) c / } c / ) c r > c r ) c / } c / ) c / } c / ) c r > c rt Z O ^ & H P ^ P ^ & < p L H i A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article V I II status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (11) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (MI) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 594. 592 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a n e v o S l i o o S l m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T a i j k i s t n a T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a V i e t N a m W s e t e r S n a m a o R b u p e i l c o f Y e m n e Z a r i e Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 593 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. - indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. 0 indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1The listing includes the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exchange practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31,1993. 3 It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not necessar- ily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Exchange arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, South African rand, or Russian ruble. 5 Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions evidenced by external payments arrears and restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14,1952. 6 Resident-owned funds. 594 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* ACP-EU African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention ACU Asian Clearing Union AFTA ASEAN Free Trade Area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian Monetary Unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN Association of South East Asian Nations BCEAO Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de I1 Afrique Centrale) BEAC BLEU Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union CACM Central American Common Market CAP Common Agricultural Policy (of the EU) CARICOM Caribbean Common Market CCCN Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature CEEAC Economic Community of Central African States CEFIA Central European Free Trade Area CEPGL Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries GET Common External Tariff (of CARICOM) CMA Common Monetary Area CMEA Council for Mutual Economic Assistance COCOM Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls ECCB Eastern Caribbean Central Bank ECLAC Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean ECOWAS Economic Community of West African States (Cedeao) ECSC European Coal and Steel Community ECU European Currency Unit EFTA European Free Trade Association EMS European Monetary System EPZ Export processing zone ERM Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) EU European Union (formerly European Community) EURATOM European Atomic Energy Community GATT General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade GCC Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) GSP Generalized System of Preferences ICO International Coffee Organization LAIA Latin American Integration Association LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market MFA Multifiber Arrangement MFN Most favored nation MTN Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECS Organization of Eastern Caribbean States OGL Open general license PTA Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States SACU South African Customs Union SPARTECA South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement UAPTA Unit of account of the PTA 595 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS UDEAC WAEC WAMU Central African Customs and Economic Union West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union *This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 596 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 