 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 1993 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1993 International Monetary Fund Price: US$70.00 (US$35.00 to full-time university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange re- strictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-338-5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 10, 1993 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1993, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director Hi ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote dTvoire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti CONTENTS Page vii 1 Page 3 6 8 13 17 19 23 25 27 32 34 37 41 43 49 53 57 59 61 65 66 68 71 77 80 84 87 89 93 96 98 102 106 Ill 118 123 125 128 131 135 139 143 146 148 Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Page 149 151 154 158 162 165 168 170 173 177 179 184 188 190 192 195 199 203 206 208 211 213 216 218 221 223 229 232 243 248 251 254 256 260 262 265 269 273 275 279 280 284 287 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vi CONTENTS Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Lithuania Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines San Marino Page 291 293 295 297 299 302 305 309 312 317 319 322 326 327 330 333 336 338 340 342 348 351 355 358 361 364 366 369 371 375 379 381 383 390 392 395 398 401 408 413 416 418 421 426 429 431 433 436 Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka . Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen, Republic of Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix. EC: Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated During 1992 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 438 440 442 446 448 451 453 455 458 460 463 468 471 479 486 490 492 494 496 501 505 508 512 514 518 525 530 532 534 536 538 541 547 549 551 553 557 560 562 565 570 574 579 590 597 Note: The term "country/7 as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Regime and Market Operations Division of the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department. It draws on the specialized contri- butions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's seven Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade systems of individual member countries, including the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has ac- cepted the IMF's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the King- dom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF's Arti- cles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as of the end of 1992, but in ap- propriate cases reference is made to significant de- velopments that took place in early 1993. A standardized approach has been followed, un- der which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chro- nologically the more significant changes during 1992 and in early 1993. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe exchange and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as im- port licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and exportincentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1992 includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in- ternational transactions such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional coopera- tion, but are not necessarily reflected in the body of the country descriptions. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(a). The struc- ture of exchange markets is described, and the offi- cial exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1992, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded pay- ments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Resident/Nonresident Accounts, and, in some instances, External Accounts, or Foreign Currency Ac- counts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as residents of that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na- ture and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indi- cates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the re- strictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely or restrictively according to ad- ministrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the exportation of foreign and domes- tic bank notes. For some countries that do not im- pose limitations on payments for invisibles, this sec- tion is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expres- sion "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indi- cates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the cen- tral bank, commercial bank, or an exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries, there 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in in- visibles are given, and any limitations on the impor- tation of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital move- ments are described. When regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usu- ally dealt with in this section rather than in the sec- tions on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the princi- pal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, importation, and exportation of gold coins and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. The official rate is applied to (1) a few transactions of the central Government (mainly debt-service pay- ments); and (2) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling exchange rates for the U.S. dollar were Af 50.00 and Af 51.20, respectively, per US$1. Almost all other official transactions are con- ducted at a commercial rate set by the Government. A free market, in the form of a money bazaar, is also operative. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling commercial rates for the U.S. dollar were Af 950.00 and Af 955.00, respectively, per US$1. Between May and December 1989, the previously complex multiple exchange rate system was simpli- fied significantly. Different mixed rates that had applied to proceeds in convertible currencies for nine principal exports were abolished, and pro- ceeds from exports in convertible currencies were shifted to the commercial exchange rate. In Decem- ber 1989, most public sector transactions, with the exception of debt servicing, were also moved to the commercial exchange rate. The commercial exchange rate was, however, not closely linked to the free market rate. Between December 1989 and February 1991, it was closely linked to the free mar- ket rate. In February 1991, it was maintained at Af 734 per US$1, and subsequently a significant premium developed between the commercial and free market exchange rates. The central bank limited sales of foreign exchange to five essential commodities (tea, vegeta- ble oil, medicines, powdered milk, and soap) in March 1991. The official exchange rate now applies to no more than 10 percent of convertible currency transactions. Exchange rates for trade under bilat- eral payments agreements are determined under each agreement (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, below). The exchange rate applied to transac- tions of international organizations is set at 80 percent of the level of the commercial exchange rate. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistani rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. It charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. No official restrictions are applied to transactions in the free exchange market. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghani- stan maintains bilateral payments agreements1 are made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Some of these have been inactive for several years and others are being phased out. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. The importation of a few items (e.g., certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) is pro- hibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special per- mission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circumstances change. The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of propos- als submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. The importation of petroleum products 1 Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Russian Federation, and the Slovak Republic. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 AFGHANISTAN was a state monopoly until late 1992. In light of recent oil shortages, however, the private sector has been allowed to import and distribute petroleum. The present customs tariff structure, promul- gated in June 1974, changed little until May 1989. At that time, tariff rates on most consumer items were adjusted upward to 30-50 percent from their former range of about 20-35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods of at least equivalent value to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sec- tor imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open letters of credit. In January 1990, the deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, were adjusted down- ward to 20 percent from 25 percent for essential products and upward to a range of 30-60 percent from a range of 20-50 percent for other products. Payments for Invisibles The maximum amount that can be taken out of the country for tourist travel abroad is the equiva- lent of $1,000 a trip, except for travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. On appli- cation, foreign exchange is allocated for business travel and for medical treatment abroad, and the amounts are determined by Da Afghanistan Bank; normally, the limits are $15,000 for business and $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign exchange for other private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. The central bank levies a charge of Af 0.75 per US$1 and 1 percent of hard currency for permits that approve the exportation of convertible currency by authorized travelers. For medical treat- ment and business travel, the central bank levies Af 0.75 per US$1. Travelers may take out not more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. The exportation of a few products (e.g., opium and museum pieces) is prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghanistan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrange- ment. In the case of exports to countries trading in con- vertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 3, 6, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. However, proceeds from seven items (raisins, fresh fruits, ani- mal casings, skins, licorice roots, medicinal herbs, and wool) must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afgha- nis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghani- stan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on depar- ture, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by the Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974), which is currently under revision, has a number of provisions, including (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on divi- dends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN 5 vided that the products are not among the prohib- ited exports; and (6) mandatory procurement by government agencies and departments from enter- prises established under the law as long as the prices are not more than 15 percent higher than those of foreign suppliers. The law stipulates that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign participa- tion not exceeding 49 percent, and that an invest- ment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatri- ated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domestically gold in any form. Imports and re- exports of gold are permitted, subject to regula- tions. Exports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles con- taining minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the transaction is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Albania is the Lek. The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the inter- bank market. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate rela- tionship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The Bank of Albania announces the daily average exchange rates of the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. No margins are set between buying and selling rates for the official exchange rate that is applied to official and commercial transactions nor are com- missions assessed on these transactions. However, the commercial banks charge a commission of 0.5 percent on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. On December 31,1992, the official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was lek 102.91 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Authority to amend the exchange control regula- tions is vested in the Parliament, which approves specific proposals made by the Council of Minis- ters. The Ministry of Finance administers exchange controls. All commercial banks are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. The Bank of Albania may (1) authorize banks and other dealers to conduct foreign exchange operations; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) supervise foreign exchange operations to prevent any participant from domi- nating the market. It delegates to licensed banks and foreign exchange dealers the responsibility to ensure that their operations comply with foreign exchange regulations. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All merchandise trade is conducted in convert- ible currencies. All transactions under bilateral pay- ments agreements were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing accounts is pending the out- come of negotiations.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident and nonresident natural and juridical persons are permitted to hold accounts in domestic and foreign currencies with banks and to conduct transactions with any resident. Authorized banks must keep 100 percent coverage on the foreign deposits placed with them. Commercial banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions and hold accounts abroad. There are no restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign exchange from foreign exchange accounts by residents or nonresidents. Interest rates paid on foreign currency accounts are determined by banks. Imports and Exports All state and private enterprises, individuals, and juridical persons are free to engage in foreign trade activities. The lists of products subject to export and import licenses are issued by the Ministry of For- eign Economic Relations. Licenses are required to import hazardous materials and firearms. At the end of 1992, 21 categories of export products were subject to licensing requirements. Applicants for export licenses must pay a service fee of $5 for each license. There are no surrender requirements, but all pri- vate and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate their foreign exchange receipts to Albania through the domestic banking system within 30 days of receipt. They are free to retain these proceeds in or outside the banking system or to convert them into leks. Customs duties, which are applied to both pri- vate and public sector imports, range from 5 per- cent for raw materials, intermediate goods, and 1At the end of 1992, Albania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, and Viet Nam. At the end of 1992, Albania also maintained bilateral trade agreements providing for settle- ments in convertible currencies with Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Islamic Republic of Iran, Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and the former Yugoslavia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 7 foodstuffs to 30 percent for industrial and capital goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for most invisibles are free of restric- tion. Basic limits are established for certain invisible payments. For tourist travel, the limit is the equiva- lent of $150 a person a day, with an annual limit of $900; for business travel, the limit is $200 a person a day, with an annual limit of $1,200. Amounts in excess of the basic allowances are available with approval from the Bank of Albania. There is no restriction on transfers of dividends and profits, with the exception of a 10 percent withholding tax on the remittance of profits. The amount of foreign exchange that can be purchased for travel by emi- grants is subject to approval on a case-by-case basis. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as those from merchandise exports. The exportation and importation of domestic cur- rency are prohibited. Capital With certain exceptions, capital transfers are sub- ject to the prior written approval of the Bank of Alba- nia. The following capital transfers may be made freely: (1) inward capital transfers; (2) transfers of proceeds from disinvestment of a previously regis- tered direct investment, up to the proportion of the total registered capital contribution from the nonresi- dent beneficiary; (3) transfers of proceeds or with- drawal of nonresident deposits; and (4) transfers by an emigrant up to $1,000 a year for an adult (and $500 a year for a child). Foreign borrowing is not restricted but is subject to authorization from the Bank of Albania. All requests for establishing joint ventures involving over $50,000 in foreign capital must be approved by the Council of Ministers through the relevant ministry and the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. Similar requests from financial institutions are approved by the Bank of Albania. Profits of joint ventures may be subject to tax rates of up to 50 percent, depending on the activity of the enterprise; profits are not subject to any tax during the first two years of operation for long-term (at least ten-year) investment projects. Enterprises are eligible for reduced tax rates when they reinvest profits in Albania. Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing land or property in Albania. Transfers abroad of proceeds from sales of inherited property are sub- ject to approval. Gold All transactions in gold have to be effected through the Bank of Albania. There are no restric- tions on gold holdings. Gold may be exported only by the Bank of Albania. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The official exchange rate, which had been pegged to the ECU, was abolished, and the exchange rate was allowed to be determined by market forces in the interbank market. August 1. The Bank of Albania began to grant licenses to individuals and private and state-owned corporations to operate as foreign exchange dealers in the free market. Imports and Exports July 1. ( l )The import-licensing requirements were abolished except for hazardous materials and firearms; (2) export-licensing requirements were abolished except for 21 product groups; and (3) the surrender requirement on proceeds from exports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Bank of Algeria (the central bank) partly on the basis of a relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. The Bank of Algeria adjusts this rate to reflect its domestic economic objectives. A margin of DA 0.015 has been estab- lished between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 22.7739 and DA 22.7889, respectively, per US$1. Foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Bank of Algeria; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. Under Regulation 91/07, residents may obtain from their commercial banks forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of forward contracts to buy or sell foreign exchange. Payment for fu ture delivery of foreign exchange may be effected either at the date the contract is made, in which case the spot exchange rate applies, or at the time the for- eign exchange is delivered, in which case a forward rate quoted by the Bank of Algeria applies. The Bank of Algeria quotes 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, 12-month, 2-year, and 3-year forward exchange rates for specified currencies (see footnote 1 on page 1). Administration of Control The Bank of Algeria has general jurisdiction over exchange control. It formulates exchange leg- islation and regulations and is responsible for their application by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fourniture) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise, except that transactions with Morocco can be effected in U.S. dollars through special clear- ing accounts maintained at the central banks of the respective countries. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Alge- rian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in convertible dinars or internal nonresident accounts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened before January 1,1975 by nonresident natu- ral persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currency. Under Regu- lation 91/02, juridical and natural persons of for- eign nationality may open accounts denominated in the convertible currency of their choice. Such accounts may be credited with (1) bank notes and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and (2) other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited without restriction (1) to make transfers abroad; (2) through withdrawals of for- eign bank notes to export; and (3) to make dinar Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tuni- sia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Bank of Tunisia. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural per- son residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to his coun- try of origin. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings on Octo- ber 20,1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individ- ual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes devises) may be opened by natural and juridical Algerian nationals resident in Algeria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers of convert- ible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that have been declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to-bank book transfers. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of con- vertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Central Bank of Algeria. Since 1990, economic enti- ties have also been able to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained proportion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make for- eign payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. All regulations requiring prior authorization to import and those controlling foreign exchange pay- ments for imports have been abolished. Juridical and natural persons licensed under the Commercial Register (including concessionaires and wholesal- ers) may import goods that are not prohibited or restricted without any prior authorization, pro- vided that the importer possesses foreign exchange resources. All these imports are subject to obliga- tory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submit- ting a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars valued at the offi- cial exchange rate. Before import payments are effected, domiciled banks may require from the importer a deposit in dinars up to the full value of the imports. Importers maintaining foreign cur- rency accounts at authorized intermediary banks may use them to pay for imports. Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and pre- cious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. All import documents are subject to a review by committee under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce and represented by the Bank of Algeria and several other ministries. Documents for imports of less than $100,000 must be forwarded to the committee after the transactions have been com- pleted, whereas documents for imports exceeding $100,000 must be forwarded to the committee before the transactions take place. All imports are divided into three categories: (1) Category 1 covers priority imports; (2) Category 2 covers restricted imports; and (3) Category 3 cov- ers imports to promote production and invest- ments. Priority imports are subject to a system of cahiers des charges, which specifies certain require- ments and obligations for an importer. Products are considered strategic, and receive priority alloca- tions of available foreign exchange and official credit. If recourse to commercial credit becomes necessary, certain minimum requirements (stipu- lated in Instruction No. 58/92) must be observed. Category 2 contains two lists: List A includes imports that have been temporarily suspended, and L is tB includes imports for which banks are not allowed to provide foreign exchange. Products on List B, however, may be imported if they are financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources. Category 3 products are considered nec- essary to promote production and investment. Authorization for these imports exceeding $100,000 is granted on a case-by-case basis, whereas applica- tions for imports not exceeding $100,000 are for- warded to commercial banks and financed with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 ALGERIA monthly foreign exchange allocations received from the Bank of Algeria. Import financing is classified into four categories: (1) cash, that is, imports financed with resources from exports and other foreign exchange earnings; (2) multilateral and bilateral credit contracted by the Government and allocated to importers; (3) commercial credit contracted directly by import- ers; and (4) imports financed with resources from the foreign currency accounts of importers. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through the authorized intermediary banks. External borrowing may not exceed the import value. For imports val- ued at less than $2 million, the intermediary bank may combine import orders to seek a combined financing. Imports of food products and other con- sumer goods (biens courants), raw materials, semi- finished goods, and capital goods used by essential industries are encouraged to be financed with offi- cial lines of credit. For imports not eligible for offi- cial financing, and for those imports that are eligible for official lines of credit but for which the available lines have been totally drawn, banks are instructed to obtain credits with maturities that vary according to the nature of the import. Instruction No. 58/92 stipulates minimum requirements in terms of maturity of the commer- cial credits. For those imports that are subject to the system of cahiers des charges, the minimum maturi- ties are 18 months for consumer goods and 24 months for other goods. In the case of industrial products, the minimum maturity is 24 months for inputs and 36 months for equipment. Except as otherwise indicated by the exchange control authorities (the Bank of Algeria), down pay- ments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured by Algerian insurers. When a public agency, public enterprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payments before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Special regulations apply to imports that do not require the use of official foreign exchange (importa- tions sans paiements). Capital goods and spare parts, and personal effects with values of less than DA 30,000 may be imported without any reporting requirements regarding the source of the foreign exchange used, but applicable taxes must be paid. The list of items that may be imported is prepared periodically by ministerial decree; it excludes fin- ished consumer goods, except for personal effects. During 1990, a system of concessionaires and wholesalers was introduced to increase the avail- ability and standardization of imported goods for resale. These entities are freely permitted, by the Council for Money and Credit, to import and resell items in Algeria that relate to approved activities. Profits earned from foreign investment may be freely repatriated. When more than two concession- aires or wholesalers are operating in an activity, all imports must be channeled through these conces- sionaires or wholesalers, whether or not they use official foreign exchange. The initial list of goods eligible for importation by these entities includes motor vehicles and motorcycles, materials used in agriculture and fishing, electric and electronic household appliances, heating and air-conditioning equipment, pharmaceutical and child care prod- ucts, and most spare parts. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Algeria must approve all payments for invisibles to all countries. When supporting doc- uments are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to speci- fied limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) business or official travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For pay- ments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the central bank or the Ministry of Econ- omy must authorize the granting of exchange. Public and private sector national exporters may open EDAC accounts (that is, exporters' convertible dinar accounts) denominated in convertible dinars, which may be credited with up to 100 percent of repatriated proceeds and be used for any purpose. Residents of other countries working in Algeria, under technical cooperation programs, for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents were suspended in October 1986. Residents requiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance based on need. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange that was freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 11 fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Certain exports are prohibited regardless of destination. All proceeds from exports of crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and mineral products must be surrendered. Exporters of other products may retain a specified proportion of their export earnings in a foreign currency account, as follows: Algerian tourist operators, 20 percent; exporters of agricultural and fishery products, 50 percent; and exporters of major services and other products, 100 percent. Entities may use these funds for imports or other payments pertaining to their business or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency account. Exports other than hydrocarbons benefit from certain incentive measures granted by the Government, including, for example, (1) exemption from the tax on indus- trial and commercial profits and the flat-rate levy on the wage bill, and (2) export promotion assis- tance (AMPEX). Sales on consignment must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and must always be regis- tered before customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of collecting. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price for each barrel, which is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For the petroleum company that holds mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the impor- tation of foreign bank notes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresi- dents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 200 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license. The Committee for External Borrowing administered by the Bank of Algeria must approve in advance all borrowing abroad or from nonresidents. The Law of Money and Credit of April 14, 1990 provides for state guarantees in respect of borrowing for investments in accordance with the international codes and agreements ratified by Algeria in all areas except those expressly reserved for the state. Repatri- ation in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds from invested foreign capital is guaranteed. The law also stipulates that profit remittances on such invest- ments will be permitted, provided that documenta- tion requirements on tax payments are met. Tax facilities may be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guaran- tee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvested profits, and the repatria- tion of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Algerian banks offer three-year interest-free bonds in dinars, which entitle the subscriber to exchange 20 percent of the placement value annu- ally into a convertible currency at the official exchange rate. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la trans- formation de Tor et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to pur- chase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any pre- cious metal, including gold. Gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 ALGERIA and the central bank. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by con- cessionaires. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments March 14. A list of products whose importation is indefinitely suspended was issued. It includes shoes, rugs, other textile products, leather articles, and some consumption goods. March 23. A list of textile products and consump- tion goods subject to additional antidumping cus- toms duties was issued. March 26. The importation of refrigerators and batteries was suspended. March 30. The importation of tropical fruits was suspended. August 18. Instruction No. 625/92 of the Prime Minister was issued. It established an "ad hoc" committee to manage foreign exchange resources and prioritize imports. This committee, to be placed under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce, would comprise representatives from the Bank of Algeria and other ministries. The Instruction also stipulated that foreign trade regulations would rely on extensive use of the system of cahiers des charges. September 25. Transit of foreign goods through Algeria was prohibited. October 27. An information notice of the Ministry of Commerce and Instruction No. 58/92 of the Bank of Algeria introduced new guidelines concerning the prioritization of imports and access to foreign exchange to enforce Instruction No. 625/92 of August 18. The new regulations stipulated that all import dos- siers would have to be forwarded to the ad hoc com- mittee; import dossiers for amounts of less than $100,000 are to be sent after the transaction for infor- mation purposes, whereas import dossiers for amounts exceeding $100,000 are to be forwarded for approval before the transaction takes place. Instruc- tion No. 58/92 also specifies that recourse to commer- cial lines would be permitted only if no other financing options were available and if the cost and amount were reasonable. It further stipulated the fol- lowing minimum maturity requirements: for import items that are subject to the system of cahiers des charges, minimum terms must be 18 months for con- sumer goods and 24 months for other goods; and for industrial products, the minimum maturity must be 24 months for inputs and 36 months for equipment. The regulations classified imports into three catego- ries: (1) priority imports; (2) restricted imports; and (3) imports used to promote production and invest- ment. Priority imports would comprise two groups: imports to preserve and develop the production of hydrocarbon exports and imports deemed necessary to implement government policies. The first group would receive priority in the allocation of cash and official credit lines. The second group would consist of basic consumer goods, medicines, inputs for agricul- tural production, and inputs for construction whose importation would be subject to a system of cahiers des charges. Restricted imports would comprise two lists: one list would contain those items for which imports would be temporarily suspended to provide protec- tion for local producers or to restrict the consumption of "luxury" items; the other list would contain items whose importation would be restricted unless the importer finances the transaction through his foreign currency accounts. Imports to promote production and investment would include inputs used for export activities or inputs used in productions supporting high employment. For these items, decisions would be made by the ad hoc committee on a case-by-case basis if the imports are valued at more than $100,000. Imports valued at less than $100,000 would be referred to the commercial banks to be financed with foreign exchange at their disposal in accordance with Regulation No. 92/04 or with monthly foreign exchange allocations from the Bank of Algeria. Exports and Export Proceeds March 22. Regulation 92/04 was introduced. It gave greater freedom to commercial banks in man- aging export receipts. In particular, commercial banks would no longer be obliged to surrender to the Bank of Algeria foreign exchange deposited in foreign currency accounts, proceeds from exports other than hydrocarbons, or borrowed foreign exchange. June 22. The exportation of cast iron and some leather items was suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Angola is the New Kwanza. The exchange rate system consists of two rates—the offi- cial rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, and the free market rate, which is market-determined. The official rate applies to public sector transactions and to traditional exports (oil and diamonds). On December 31, 1992, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was NKz 550 per US$1. The free market rate applies to purchases of foreign exchange, checks, traveler's checks, payment orders, and other instruments used in international transactions by individuals, organizations, firms, and tourist opera- tors, and to sales of foreign exchange for travel and special expenses or transfers abroad. On December 31,1992, the rates in the free market were NKz 3,790.00 per US$1 (buying) and NKz 3,840.00 per US$1 (selling). Exchange rates for 17 other cur- rencies1 are established using the weekly average cross rates of the currencies concerned on the New York, Frankfurt, Paris, London, Brussels, and Zurich markets on the basis of a formula that projects exchange rate changes in the following week. This formula takes into account the changes in rates dur- ing the preceding week. Two tables of exchange rates are published weekly, one for transactions between the National Bank of Angola (NBA) and the commercial banks and the other for transactions between the com- mercial banks and economic agents. The NBA applies a margin of 0.25 percent to its buying and selling transactions with economic agents. Buying and selling margins for cash transactions are set at 3-4 percent, depending on the currency. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Organic Law of the National Bank of Angola and the Financial Institutions Law, promulgated on April 20, 1991, established the NBA and the com- mercial banks as the financial institutions that are legally authorized to conduct exchange transac- tions with foreign parties. The NBA has delegated authority to banks to license and execute permitted foreign exchange invisible transactions. Commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers licensed by the NBA are authorized to deal in foreign exchange at the floating exchange rate. The NBA operates in the floating rate foreign exchange market only in its dealings with financial institutions. All imports and exports are subject to licensing. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through the NBA's commercial department, the Banco de Poupanga e Credito (BPC), and the Banco do Comercio e Industria (BCI), of which the latter two are commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange under the Organic Law of the NBA and the Financial Institutions Law. The NBA's commer- cial department is a transitional arrangement estab- lished to facilitate the transition from the centralized banking system to the two-tier banking system. Accordingly, the NBA serves both as the central bank and as a commercial bank. Financial institutions must deposit with the central bank all amounts required for payment of taxes and import duties made by foreign enterprises and all proceeds from exports by domestic enterprises, including those credited to accounts abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The NBA prescribes the currencies to be used for imports, depending upon the country with which the transactions are to be carried out. The currencies are usually those of the exporting countries or the U.S. dollar. Bilateral settlement arrangements, which do not contain bilateral payments features, are maintained with Brazil, Portugal, and Spain. These arrangements use single accounts whose monthly balances can be used without restriction for transactions with third parties. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Resident enterprises may maintain foreign exchange accounts with Angolan financial institu- tions. These accounts are remunerated at current interest rates, and checkbooks may not be issued. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ANGOLA The opening of and transactions through these accounts are not subject to prior authorization from the NBA. These accounts may be credited only through delivery of foreign currency in cash, travel- er's checks, or foreign payment orders, and for interest accrued; they may be debited only through conversion into domestic currency or issuance of any instrument normally accepted on the interna- tional financial market, in settlement of imports of goods and current invisibles, or of capital export operations, carried out by the depositor himself. Transfers between accounts are forbidden. Nonresidents may hold accounts in new kwan- zas, subject to authorization from the NBA. Interest is paid at current rates, and checkbooks may not be issued. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the sale of foreign means of payment and with deposits of proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited only through the issuance of checks for payment of local expenditures or through purchase of foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may also hold foreign exchange accounts, subject to authorization from the NBA. These accounts may be opened and credited only through the importation of foreign means of pay- ment or the deposit of proceeds from the account holder's activities in Angola; they may be debited only through the sale of foreign means of payment or repatriation of all or part of the existing credit balance. Former residents may also hold accounts in new kwanzas, but they may withdraw funds from these accounts only to cover expenses during their stay in Angola. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, with limits pre-established in the import plan, and are subject to the availability of foreign exchange, except imports of spare parts, accessories or similar goods, medicines, equipment, and raw materials, up to a quarterly maximum of $50,000 (or its equivalent) an importer; licenses are expeditiously issued by the NBA. Enterprises buying foreign exchange at auc- tion must submit the exporter's pro forma invoices (which may include insurance and freight) within three days, under penalty of losing the foreign exchange purchased. For imports exceeding $10,000, enterprises must submit an import regis- tration bulletin within eight days of completion of the operation under penalty of being excluded from fu ture foreign exchange auctions. Licenses are granted only to registered enter- prises of proven technical, commercial, and finan- cial capacity and are issued on the basis of a foreign exchange allocation and restricted to imports of goods for which the enterprise is registered. To obtain a license, enterprises must present to the sec- toral ministries and the Ministry of Commerce offers of three foreign suppliers. The approved offer may be considered for an import license applica- tion, which, in turn, must be approved by the same ministries. Import licenses specify the importer, supplier, intermediary, product (Brussels Nomen- clature Classification, volume, and unit price), ship- ping and insurance companies, cost, and method and currency of payment. Once the importation of merchandise is approved, the NBA issues the credit document, with a copy for the import license appli- cant, stating that, before shipment to Angola, the goods must be examined by the Societe generale de surveillance for compliance with international stan- dards for merchandise transactions. Import licenses are valid for 180 days after issuance and may be extended once for an additional 180 days. If an import transaction is not fully effected within this period, the original merchandise transaction is deemed to have become a capital transaction. A license fee of 0.1 percent of the import value is lev- ied. Import licenses are also required for statistical purposes even if foreign exchange is not requested. Imports of capital goods must be financed partly by medium-term foreign financing. Payments for Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents are subject to licensing. Preferential treatment is given to domes- tic air and sea transportation companies, and imports not insured domestically are approved only in exceptional cases. Exchange allowances for private travel are granted only in certain cases, at the free market exchange rate. A maximum monthly allowance of $2,500 is granted to residents who are abroad for up to 90 days for educational, scientific, or cultural purposes. Up to the equivalent of $5,000 may be granted at the official exchange rate for purposes of medical treatment abroad, through the National Health Board. Individuals not traveling for treat- ment through the National Health Board may pur- chase foreign exchange at the floating exchange rate. When departing Angola, nonresidents visiting the country for purposes of tourism or business are permitted, upon presentation of the corresponding sales vouchers, to purchase up to 50 percent of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 15 foreign exchange they sold to institutions accred- ited to deal in foreign exchange. Up to the equivalent of $1,500 a month may be granted to Angolans or foreigners residing abroad who are direct ascendants or descendants of, and financially dependent on, residents in Angola, pro- vided that (1) they are minor descendants under 18 years or, if of legal age, demonstrate that they are students or incapable of working; or (2) they are ascendants over 60 years or, if younger, demon- strate they are incapable of working. Education travel expenses are normally expected to be covered by scholarships, but an additional for- eign exchange amount may be granted at the float- ing market exchange rate. Resident nationals who wish to travel abroad may, upon presentation of their passport and airline ticket, purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions under the following rules: (1) children up to the age of 16 years, up to $500 a person a trip to neighboring countries and up to $1,000 a trip to other countries; and (2) individuals over 16 years, up to $1,500 a person a trip to neighboring coun- tries and up to $3,000 a trip to other countries. Non- residents departing the country may repurchase up to 50 percent of the value of the foreign exchange they sold to financial institutions upon entering the country. Companies may purchase foreign exchange from financial institutions to cover travel expenses abroad of their employees, on trips of up to 30 days, for business, service, or training, with the following daily limits: (1) president or equiva- lent, $350; (2) vice president or equivalent, $300; and (3) department director or equivalent, $200. If a person returns to Angola earlier than expected, the remaining foreign exchange must be resold to a financial institution. All these transactions take place at the floating market exchange rate. The exportation of domestic currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods are prohibited.2 Re- exports of goods other than capital goods and per- sonal belongings are also prohibited. Restrictions apply to the exportation of products that are in short domestic supply. All other exports are subject to prior licensing. Licenses may be obtained by reg- istered enterprises, and proceeds must be collected 2Arms and ammunition, ethnological collections, ships, ostrich products, cattle, and ivory products. Special export regimes app ly to aircraft, animals and animal products, histori- cal objects, minerals and mineral products, toxic substances, cot- ton, rice, pork, coffee, cereals, wood and wood products, tobacco, and petroleum. within 30 days of shipment and surrendered to the NBA. Certain foreign enterprises (oil companies) are required to surrender only a portion of their export receipts and may retain the remainder to cover production costs. Proceeds from Invisibles Service contracts with nonresidents must be approved by the NBA. The sectoral ministries supervise the execution of contracts. All proceeds must be surrendered to the NBA within 30 days of receipt. There are no limits on the amount of foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in foreign exchange a per- son may bring into the country, but any amount exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared upon arrival. Residents are permitted to leave the country with foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 only if they present exchange purchase docu- ments; nonresidents must present such documents when the amount exceeds $10,000. The importation of domestic currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers are subject to licensing and control. The Foreign Investment Law of July 1988 prohibits investment in strategic sectors.3 Direct investments in the oil sector are encouraged. Divi- dends and capital may be repatriated upon liquida- tion, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Transfers of personal capital, such as inheritances, dowries, savings from wages and sal- aries, and proceeds from sales of personal property, are permitted only on a case-by-case basis. Gold The importation and exportation of gold are a monopoly of the NBA. Residents are permitted to hold gold only in the form of jewelry. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 15. The exchange rate of the new kwanza was adjusted against the U.S. dollar to NKz 550 per US$1. This rate would apply to official transactions, traditional exports (oil and diamonds), and imports of raw materials. The surcharge system was abol- ished, and all other transactions would be carried 3Defense, law and order, education, health, utilities, communi- cations, and transport infrastructure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ANGOLA out at the market-determined exchange rate in the free market. May 6. The official exchange rate ceased to apply to imports of raw materials, provided that the for- eign exchange was obtained in the free market. Administration of Control October 16. Financial institutions were required to surrender to the NBA all proceeds from exports by domestic enterprises, including proceeds credited to foreign accounts and all taxes and duties payable on imports by foreign enterprises. Resident and Nonresident Accounts August 12. Resident enterprises were authorized to open foreign currency accounts with domestic institutions. April 3. Nonresidents were permitted to hold accounts in new kwanzas under certain conditions, subject to prior authorization from the NBA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transac- tions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risks operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from November 22,1983. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all currencies and is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are required for a range of products, partic- ularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARI- COM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other coun- tries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. l rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms, especially in tourist-oriented industries or export trade, whose receipts are primarily in for- eign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts oper- ations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Certain other commodi- ties require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda fol- lows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permit- ted upon application and submission of documen- tary evidence. Imports exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis, generally under the Fiscal Incentives Act of 1975 and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Upon presentation of supporting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 for each trip outside the ECCB area; how- ever, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trin- idad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Official authorization is required for amounts exceeding these limits. Foreign exchange allow- ances for education, family maintenance, medical treatment, and remittances of earnings by foreign workers are approved on a case-by-case basis. Prof- its on foreign direct investment may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coins are not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000, approval from the Min- istry of Finance must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charitable purposes, are usually granted. Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on the importation of gold. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 2992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Peso.1 Its exter- nal value is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the middle rate of the peso in terms of the U.S. dollar was A0.99 per US$1 (sell- ing). Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted under a regime introduced on December 20, 1989. The currency of transactions and the rates may be freely negotiated. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14,1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies; each type of insti- tution is subject to separate regulations. Credit institutions and mortgage savings and loan compa- nies may also effect certain foreign exchange trans- actions on the condition that they meet certain additional minimum capital requirements. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since October 2, 1992, payments between Argen- tina and Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela have been settled on a voluntary basis through accounts main- tained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit and payment agreements within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). All payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic are effected through the Cen- tral Bank of Argentina and the central banks of these countries in accordance with credit and pay- ment agreements. 1 On Janua ry 1, 1992, the peso replaced the austral, at the rate of 1 peso per 10,000 australes. Under the Presidential Declaration and Energy Integration Protocol signed with the Government of Bolivia on December 13, 1989 for the purpose of making joint use of the energy resources of both countries, until April 1992, 18 percent of Argen- tina's payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports were paid into a non-interest-bearing account at the Central Bank of Argentina and the remainder were settled in U.S. dollars. These funds were used solely for purchases of goods and services of Argentine origin for the construction of the Rio Grande- Campo Santa Cruz gas pipeline, the gas treatment plant at Naranjillos, and the Palmar Grande-Camiri highway Since May 1992, under an agreement con- cluded between the governments of Argentina and Bolivia, Argentina has been making payments for gas imports from LAIA bilateral balances and with $110 million in foreign exchange resources set aside by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Argentina main- tains reciprocal credit arrangements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Poland, and the Russian Federa- tion by means of special accounts in each central bank through which transactions are settled. Trans- actions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains a special account with Roma- nia, under which payments for imports of equip- ment and capital goods from Romania (settled before September 23, 1989, when the agreement expired) are offset by receipts from exports of cer- tain products from Argentina. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresi- dent, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely, except for export pay- ments. Since January 1, 1993, the use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars has been allowed for domestic transactions.2 2 Since February 1, 1993, the reserve requirement has been allowed to be met partially in foreign or domestic currency, and the same reserve requirement ratio has been applied to foreign and domestic currency deposits. Banks are allowed to extend credit in local currency against foreign currency deposits up to 25 percent of the capital. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ARGENTINA Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies. Payments for imports may be freely set- tled by authorized financial entities and, since December 20, 1989, have been settled at the free exchange market rate with no minimum financing requirement period. Effective November 1, 1992, the tariff regime was restructured, and eight rate schedules replaced the existing five rate schedules. The eight rates are zero, 2.5 percent, 5 percent, 7.5 percent, 10 percent, 12.5 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent. The highest tariff ra te was reduced to 20 percent from 35 percent. The reclassification of imports in the new ta r i ff structure resulted in a marginal decline in the weighted average tariff rate to 10.4 percent from 11 percent. The statistical tax was increased to 10 percent from 3 percent on all imports, except capital goods, works of art, reimports of specific groups, and fuel. As a result, the average tax on imports, including the statisti- cal tax, will amount to about 20 percent. A special tariff regime applies to automobiles. Automobile manufacturers are allowed to import automobiles up to the value of their exports at a tar- iff rate of 2 percent. Automobile dealers are allowed to import automobiles for resale by bidding on the tariff rate over the standard tariff rate applicable (20 percent after November 1992). The additional tariff rates in July and October 1992 were 20 percent. Consumers are allowed to import auto- mobiles for personal use either by (1) bidding on the tariff rate (the additional tariff rates in June and October 1992 were 49.5 percent and 41.1 percent, respectively) or (2) importing directly only models of automobiles produced domestically or imported by domestic producers at the standard tariff rate. In both cases, quotas established by the Trade Secre- tariat on the basis of domestic production are applied. Payments for Invisibles Since December 20, 1989, the sale of foreign exchange at the market exchange rate has been per- mitted for most invisible payments. Authorized entities may carry out most types of transactions without prior authorization from the Central Bank. whereby duties were eliminated, except for a 3.5 percent duty on soybeans, sunflower seeds, groundnuts, turnips, and cotton, and refunds were established. In addition, the statistical rate was eliminated effective October 30, 1992. Certain non- traditional exports are eligible for rebates of esti- mated indirect taxes paid in the process of production. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for additional rebates ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent. Effective November 1,1992, the system of export rebates was modified to reflect more fully the inci- dence on exports of certain indirect taxes, including taxes on international trade. The rates of export rebates are set at the same level as import tariffs, and each rebate rate is estimated to be about 6 percent of the average export value. A limit of 10 percent is applied to export rebates on products exported under trade agreements. Export proceeds are not subject to the surrender requirement. Many exports, particularly nontradi- tional exports, are eligible for various other export incentives, although a number of schemes have been suspended since July 1989. The Central Bank has established prefinancing and financing regimes when credits are obtained using external funds. These regimes are applied to exporters by the par- ticipating banks to promote the exportation of cer- tain goods and services. The prefinancing regime using U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA notes) was suspended on January 1, 1990, except for operations already begun on that date, with funds from all the regimes being lent as they are collected from their own port- folios. The financing system for promoted exports was suspended by Communication "A" 1807 of March 8, 1991, except with respect to those products that were in the process of exportation at that time. Under Communication "A" 1994 of August 31, 1992, this system was transferred to the Banco de Inversion y Comercio Exterior (Investment and For- eign Trade Bank). Certain products, mostly nontraditional exports, may be shipped on consignment for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from Invisibles Minimum export prices (reference prices) that applied to various categories of agricultural and livestock exports in 1992 have been abolished, fol- lowing Decision No. 1239 of November 2, 1992, Proceeds from invisible transactions of the pri- vate sector need not be surrendered to the Central Bank and sold in the exchange market. The impor- tation of domestic and foreign bank notes and gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 21 coins and "good-delivery" gold bars is not subject to exchange requirements. Capital All private sector loans are transacted in the free exchange market. There are no conditions, on matu- rity dates or interest rates, for financial loans trans- acted through the free market. Principal and interest payments for loans may only be effected directly through authorized entities. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are subsidiar- ies of these enterprises requires authorization from the Central Bank. Pursuant to Law 21.382 of 1992, loans endorsed or guaranteed by the state also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. For foreign exchange operations, authorized banks may accept sight deposits solely in U.S. dollars fol- lowing the procedures applicable to current accounts and may accept term deposits in savings banks in U.S. dollars or, with the prior authoriza- tion of the Central Bank, in other foreign currencies. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971, Decree No. 3532 of November 24, 1975, and Law No. 24.156 of October 29,1992. The foreign investment regime is established by Law No. 23697—the Economic Emergency Law— passed on September 1, 1989 and promulgated by the National Executive Power on September 15, 1989. Chapter VI of the law modified the Foreign Investment Law, mainly by repealing the provisions of the law requiring prior approval from the National Executive Power or from the implement- ing authority for foreign capital investments. Decree No. 1225 of November 9, 1989 regulates the foreign investment regime. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency, in capi- tal goods and their spare parts and accessories, in profits or capital in local currency belonging to for- eign investors, in capitalization of external credits in freely convertible foreign currency, in intangible goods (in accordance with the specific, applicable legislation), and in any other form of contribution acceptable to the implementing authority or within the scope of commercial or promotional regimes. Foreign investors may invest in Argentina with- out prior approval, on the same terms as investors who reside in Argentina, subject to the laws gov- erning the field in which they intend to invest. Law No. 23697 of 1989 has established the Register of Foreign Capital Investments, and Decree No. 1225/89 provides that investments registered before its entry into force shall automatically be recorded in the new register. Investments carried out using external public debt instruments may not be registered unless they are redeemable. In accordance with Articles 12 and 13 of Law No. 21382 (as amended by Law No. 23697 and Decree No. 1225), foreign investors are entitled to repatriate their capital unless the National Execu- tive Branch imposes general restrictions. When such restrictions are imposed, registered invest- ments may be repatriated after three years. When the Central Bank limits access to exchange markets through exchange controls, registered foreign investors may acquire foreign exchange for transfer abroad as profits and repatriation of capital. With- out prejudice to the foregoing, enterprises that receive foreign investments may distribute the liq- uid profits they earn to foreign investors who have registered their investments with foreign exchange from their exports. If the National Executive Power declares an external payments crisis, the Central Bank will deliver external public debt instruments denominated in foreign currency for the amounts that registered foreign investors wish to remit as profits. Local enterprises based on foreign capital may borrow domestically with the same rights and on the same terms as local enterprises based on domestic capital. Investment promotion and protection agree- ments have been concluded with the Belgium- Luxembourg Economic Union, and the govern- ments of Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The agreements will come into effect when the governments notify each other that their constitutional requirements for entry into force of international agreements have been met. These agreements are intended to promote, and especially to protect, investments in the signa- tory countries. In October 1987, a debt-conversion scheme was announced that would allow investments to be financed through conversion of external loan claims into domestic currency at the free foreign exchange market rate. The value of the loan claims would be determined through an auction system. The scheme came into effect on January 1, 1988, and the first auction was held in January 1988. Profits on invest- ments under this scheme may not be remitted for at least four years, and capital may not be repatriated for ten years. No auctions under this scheme were held during 1992. A privatization program is cur- rently under way. Under the program, it is possible to purchase public assets with foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ARGENTINA The Government also accepts foreign or domestic debt instruments from the public sector in partial payment. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial insti- tutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good- delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for by the importer in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are also subject to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good-delivery gold against foreign bank notes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The peso replaced the austral at the rate of 1 peso to 10,000 australes. December 1. Central Bank Communication "A" 2026, to become effective in early 1993, was announced. Under the communication, the accep- tance of current account deposits in U.S. dollars would be permitted. The reserve requirement would be allowed to be met partially in foreign or domestic currency, and the same reserve require- ment ratio would apply to foreign and domestic currency deposits. Banks and other authorized intermediaries would be allowed to extend credits in local currency against current account deposits in U.S. dollars and other foreign exchange resources, except those in a savings bank or a fixed-term account, up to 25 percent of their capital, subject to the regulations governing their net overall foreign exchange position. Imports and Import Payments November 1. The number of rates in the tariff structure was increased to eight schedules from five as follows: zero, 2.5 percent, 5 percent, 7.5 percent, 10 percent, 12.5 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent; the highest rate was reduced to 20 percent from 35 percent. The statistical tax on most imports was increased to 10 percent from 3 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds November 1. The system of export rebates was modified. The rebate rates would consist of eight rates that are identical to the new tariff schedules for imports. November 20. A special tariff regime for automo- biles approved in late 1991 allowed automobile dealers and customers to bid for additional tariff rates above the standard rate (Decree No. 2677). April 21. Import and related payments by the public sector would no longer require prior approval from the Central Bank (Communication "I" 1948). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Armenia is the Russian Ruble. Market exchange rates are freely determined in negotiations between the banks licensed by the National Bank of the Republic of Armenia (NBRA) to deal in foreign exchange and their customers and are applied to all exchange transactions. An official rate is also computed weekly by the NBRA on the basis of the Russian ruble exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Russia, taking into account quo- tations in the Armenian foreign exchange market. Official exchange rates for other convertible curren- cies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official rate is used for accounting and tax valuation purposes only. On December 31, 1992, the official exchange rate quoted by the NBRA was rub 414.50 per US$1, and the average market exchange rate was rub 415 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Government Decision No. 287 of May 13, 1992 sets out the principles and procedures for foreign exchange and currency transactions between resi- dents and nonresidents. The Ministry of Finance has overall responsibility for regulating financial relations between Armenia and other countries. Although the NBRA is responsible for implement- ing and monitoring compliance with this decision, its role in practice has been limited to licensing for- eign exchange dealers (primarily 12 commercial banks and a number of financial and commodity exchanges) and monitoring exchange rates applied by the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the central banks of these countries. l rThe Republic of Armenia became a member of the IMF on May 28,1992. Settlements with countries with which Armenia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Set- tlements with all other countries may be made in con- vertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents may open, maintain, and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad without authorization. Regulations pertaining to the conver- sion of Russian ruble balances held in Armenia for transfer to these accounts have not yet been formu- lated. Residents may also open, maintain, and use foreign currency accounts at licensed banks in Arme- nia, subject to restriction. Sources of foreign exchange to be credited to these accounts need not be revealed. Foreign exchange held in these accounts may be transferred freely to the resident holder's bank account abroad. Emigrants may transfer abroad without limit the balances in their domestic foreign exchange accounts. There are no limits on the amount of foreign currency bank notes that can be purchased with Russian rubles from licensed foreign exchange dealers, and the bank notes can be depos- ited in a foreign exchange account or used for trans- actions with nonresidents. Resident enterprises may maintain and use foreign exchange accounts in banks abroad with the authorization of the NBRA. The opening and use of domestic foreign exchange accounts are not restricted. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open and use foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks, provided that they are reg- istered with the local authorities. Balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the licensed domestic banks for Russian rubles. Nonresi- dent juridical persons may also open accounts in Russian rubles and use them for domestic transac- tions in accordance with the NBRA's instructions. Foreign governments and international institutions may open Russian ruble accounts with authorization from the NBRA. 2At the end of 1992, Armenia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Turkmenistan and bilateral trade agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R.; these agreements provided for settlements in convertible currencies. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 Imports and Exports ARMENIA Authorization from the NBRA is required to transact in foreign exchange where the underlying import operations are subject to licensing; approval is automatically granted upon presentation of valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Imports of a number of products are prohibited for public health, national security, and environ- mental reasons; for example, medicinal prepara- tions and chemical agents for plant protection. Imports of certain goods (e.g., all kinds of industrial wastes, weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives) require special authorization from the Government. Customs tariffs are levied only on products imported from countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. At present, the tariff rate is, in principle, 15 percent, but in practice numerous exceptions are granted, and lower rates apply to a number of products. Authorization from the NBRA is required to use foreign exchange earned from export operations that are subject to licensing; approval is automati- cally granted upon presentation of valid export licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Export licenses are required for nine product groups: iron and iron ore; iron alloys and oxides; pre- cious metals; rare metals; synthetic gems; natural gems and jewelry; textiles; marble, granite, and building stones; and brandy. Exports of the follow- ing products are controlled for public health, national security, and environmental reasons (Gov- ernment Decision No. 410 of July 22,1992): wild ani- mals and plants in danger of extinction, medicines, weapons, nuclear technology and nonnuclear prod- ucts, and technology with direct military applica- tions. In addition, textiles exported to European Community (EC) countries are subject to licensing. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 30 days of receipt but are not subject to the surrender requirement. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to exports may be deducted from export proceeds prior to repatriation. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident persons and enterprises may freely pur- chase foreign exchange or use foreign exchange bal- ances in their foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks to conduct invisible transactions. Verification procedures are being formulated by the NBRA. There are no limits on foreign exchange allowances for travel. Proceeds from cultural activities performed abroad are exempt from the repatriation requirement. Pro- ceeds from other invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations as those applicable to proceeds from merchandise exports. The importation of foreign currency bank notes is not restricted. At present, the exportation of foreign currency bank notes is not regulated; a d ra ft cus- toms law is under preparation that would require a declaration for the exportation of means of pay- ment in excess of $1,000. In principle, Russian ruble bank notes can be exported only to states of the former U.S.S.R. Capital Foreign investors, including joint ventures, are not required to obtain authorization from the Min- istry of Finance. A d ra ft foreign investment law, which was submitted to Parliament in early 1992, is under deliberation; it reflects current international practices and is liberal in its treatment of foreign direct investment. Other inward and outward capi- tal transfers require approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold A license is required to conduct trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.79 per US$1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (the Central Bank) deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Af. 1.77 and Af. 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of U.S. dollar rates on the international exchange market. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Purchases of for- eign exchange by resident companies with nonresi- dent status for foreign exchange control purposes are exempted from the commission. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency and are permitted to hold accounts in Aruban florins up to Af. 200,000. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts Residents must report in writing to the Central Bank the opening of foreign bank accounts. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. With the exception of eggs, all products may be imported without restriction. The restriction on the importa- tion of eggs, however, is administered liberally in accordance with the domestic supply situation. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles exceeding Af. 50,000 a quarter require a license from the Cen- tral Bank. Tourist travel allowances, education allowances, remittances for family maintenance, and allowances for medical treatment are granted liberally. Transfers of profits and dividends require a license from the Central Bank. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought into the country with them. The exportation of Aruban bank notes is prohibited. Prescription of Currency Exports and Export Proceeds Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency except the legal tender of Aruba. For purposes of the compila- tion of the balance of payments, all payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as receipts through local banks and banks abroad, must be reported to the Central Bank. Exports do not require a license. Unless specifi- cally exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, cred- ited to a foreign currency account with a local bank, or credited with a foreign bank with the approval from the Central Bank. 1 On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetro- politan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guil- ders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ARUBA Capital The following transactions require a bank license: (I) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of domestic securities; (2) purchases of officially listed foreign securities with values exceeding Af. 100,000 a year; (3) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of foreign real estate; and (4) proceeds from the liq- uidation of direct foreign investments and loans received from and extended to nonresidents. Changes During 1992 Capital January 3. Resident natural persons were permit- ted to purchase officially listed foreign securities up to the equivalent of Af. 100,000 a year, provided funds borrowed on the domestic capital market are not used for these purchases, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The Reserve Bank of Australia publishes an indicative rate for the Aus- tralian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. On December 31, 1992, the indicative rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was $A 1.4535 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and with their customers at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and for- ward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade- and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. The procedural requirements applying to certain transactions with residents of designated countries and to emigrants, which had been for taxation- screening purposes, were abolished as of July 1, 1990. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1,1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administer- ing the few requirements imposed under Austra- lia's current foreign exchange arrangements. (Most exchange controls were abolished on December 12, 1983.) On April 5, 1991, restrictions on payments and transfers to persons within the territory of Kuwait, which were introduced on August 9, 1990, were lifted. Restrictions placed on Iraq on August 9,1990 remain in place. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Australia notified the Fund on July 2, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and operate accounts without formality and may repatriate funds with- out restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of foreign currency in Australia must be handled through authorized dealers. Special requirements apply to interest-bearing investments by foreign govern- ment monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than tariff quotas, which apply to textiles, clothing, footwear, and cheese and curd. Australia is not a signatory of the Multifiber Arrangement. For many products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are nar- cotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weapons; particular chemi- cals; certain primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Australia's membership in interna- tional commodity agreements. lrThe Aus tra l ian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, N au ru, and Tuva lu. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Aus t ra l ian dollar. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 AUSTRALIA Almost all tar iff rates have been subject to a tariff- reduction program in recent years. In 1991-92, the import-weighted average tariff rate (i.e., total duty paid divided by the f.o.b. value of all imports) was 6.5 percent. Under the tariff-reduction program an- nounced in 1988, tariff rates above 15 percent were gradually reduced to 15 percent by July 1992, and tariff rates higher than 10 percent but lower than 15 percent were phased down to 10 percent over the same period. Proportional reductions were made to those tariffs not expressed in ad valorem terms. The tariff-reduction plan announced in March 1991 calls for most tar iffs to be reduced to a maximum level of 5 percent by July 1996. The ex- ceptions in these two tariff-reduction programs are for passenger automobiles and the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors, where tariffs have been rela- tively high, especially in effective terms. Under the 1988 program, tar iffs on passenger automobiles were reduced to 35 percent by July 1992, and tariff quotas in the textile, clothing, and footwear sectors are to be eliminated by the middle of 1995. The March 1991 program calls for further phased tariff reductions to 15 percent in the passenger motor ve- hicle industry and to 25 percent in the textile, foot- wear, and clothing sectors by the year 2000. Tariffs on textiles, clothing, and footwear that are not sub- ject to tariff quotas were halved on March 1, 1992 and eliminated on March 1, 1993. The tariff quota system for cheese and curd lapsed on June 30,1992. Australia's antidumping procedures were simpli- fied under the revised Customs Tariff (Antidump- ing) Act of 1988. They provide for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link between dumping and material injury to domestic industries. Industries that use imported products and other interested parties may also make submis- sions to the inquiry Antidumping duties and undertakings will lapse automatically after five years, although domestic industries may renew the antidumping petition. In special circumstances, antidumping actions may be introduced retrospec- tively or in anticipation of the arrival of dumped or subsidized goods. The Antidumping Authority was established to advise the Government on these actions, although the Australian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investiga- tion of a complaint. In March 1991, the Government announced plans to strengthen the antidumping procedures, including accelerating the complaint process and extending the injury test to cover upstream agricultural industry. In December 1991, the Government announced it would reduce the time taken to process complaints and change the way in which dumping duties are levied. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), trade in goods across the Tasman became free from July 1, 1990 (five years ahead of schedule). Imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand were subject to a customs tariff until January 1, 1990. Antidumping actions against imports from New Zealand ceased after July 1,1990, and existing antidumping actions against New Zealand firms were terminated on this date. Actions will be taken under domestic trade practices legisla- tion if it is considered necessary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets on a nonreciprocal basis for most of the products exported by the member coun- tries. Papua New Guinea, however, obtains trade concessions from New Zealand under SPARTECA, whereas its trade and commercial relations with Australia are covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea.3 Developing countries obtain tariff preferences on their exports to Australia under the Australian Sys- tem of Tariff Preference. Since 1986, a uniform pref- erential margin of 5 percentage points on dutiable goods has applied to all developing countries; if the general tariff rate is below 5 percent, imports from developing countries enter duty-free. In Febru- ary 1993, the Government announced the phased removal of the preference margins applicable to cer- tain industries, including textiles, clothing and foot- wear, chemicals, sugar, canned food, fruit juice, and dried fruit. This will apply to all beneficiary coun- tries except the least developed countries and the South Pacific Island Territories. The preferential rates for these specified industries will be frozen until the General Tariff rate falls to the preference rate; the General Tariff rate will then apply. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are unrestricted, except for transactions involving nationals of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Travelers may take out of Australia unlim- ited amounts of Australian and foreign currency purchased from authorized dealers. Travelers who 3 The areas covered by this agreement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand) —Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, N au ru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanua tu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 29 are not residents of Australia may also take out without restriction any amount in foreign currency they brought into Australia. Persons leaving Aus- tralia with Australian or foreign bank notes and coins totaling $A 5,000 or more are required under the Financial Transaction Reports Act to complete a customs report; the forms are available at ports or airports from the Australian customs authorities. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for a progressive liberalization of the trade in ser- vices between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's exclusions are in the areas of telecommunications, banking (removed after the Martin report), airport services and aviation, coastal shipping, media, and postal services. The protocol was reviewed in 1990 and 1992 and will be reviewed again in 1994 with a view to liberalizing currently exempted services. Exports and Export Proceeds The export regime is designed to encourage the relatively unrestricted exportation of Australian products. Bounties are paid to producers of a limited number of products, some of which may be exported. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control over specified goods; administer trade embargoes and meet obligations under international arrangements; restrict the exportation of certain defense goods; reg- ulate the exportation of goods that contain high tech- nology and have dual civilian and military application;4 and maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, and flora and fauna. There are no formalities regulat- ing the disposal of export proceeds. The Government also exercises export controls to secure national conservation objectives and to respond to specific market distortions abroad that have an impact on the export prices of certain prod- ucts. The Government has abolished or amended export controls on many mineral and petroleum products. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. The Government monitors trade in the bauxite, alumina, coal, and iron ore sectors and retains authority to withhold export approval for ship- ments at prices not in line with market conditions. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compli- ance with the Government's commercial and non- 4Aus tra l ia became a participant in the Coordinating Commit- tee for Mu l t i la teral Export Controls (CocoM), effective May 1989. proliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to the exportation of certain other nuclear and related materials. Export restrictions on copper scrap and copper alloy scrap were lifted in 1990. The exportation of crude oil and petroleum prod- ucts to South Africa is banned. Licenses are required for the exportation of unprocessed wood, including wood chip. Licensing requirements are intended to ensure compliance with the Government's policy regarding environ- mental protection, eliminate market distortions, and promote further processing in Australia. Australia participates in several voluntary restraint agreements (VRAs) or similar restraint agreements affecting its exports. These comprise limits on exports of the meat of sheep and goats as well as high-quality ''Hilton" beef to the EC, and steel products and beef to the United States. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers export control powers in relation to pre- scribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the GATT for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corpo- ration (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any par- ticular market. Other Commonwealth statutory mar- keting authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Austra- lian Wool Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Austra- lian wheat. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings from invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in Australian or for- eign bank notes and coins, subject to completion of a customs report for amounts exceeding $A 5,000. (See section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital The vast majority of transactions involving trans- fers of interest-bearing capital from Australia and nonresident investments in Australia may be under- taken without formality. The only exceptions are that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 AUSTRALIA foreign governments, their agencies, and interna- tional organizations are subject to certain modest restrictions on borrowing in Australia. These entities are barred from issuing bearer bonds and must con- sult with the Treasury or Reserve Bank on planned individual borrowings in excess of $A 100 million. Although there are no limits on the interest-bearing investments of international organizations or of for- eign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an amount up to which the investment of foreign government mone- tary institutions (which also undertake commercial investments) will be regarded as having been under- taken for official foreign reserve management pur- poses. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank informed of their Australian dollar portfolios. Interest-bearing investments of a foreign government's official foreign reserves are exempt from taxation consistent with the principle of sover- eign immunity. Income derived by a foreign govern- ment from the conduct of commercial operations is not exempt from Australian taxation. The Government recognizes the substantial contri- bution foreign investment makes to the development of Australia's industries and resources and has framed its policies so as to encourage direct invest- ment in line with the needs of the community. Under Australia's foreign investment policy, certain types of proposals by foreign investors for acquisition or investment of more than $A 50 million are subject to examination. These include (1) acquisitions of sub- stantial interests in existing Australian businesses; and (2) proposals for the establishment of new busi- nesses involving total investment. Proposals for investments in the following areas are subject to examination irrespective of size: (1) investment in the media; (2) direct investment by foreign govern- ments or their agencies; (3) acquisition of nonresi- dential commercial real estate; and (4) acquisition of residential real estate (unless exempt under the regu- lations). Foreign investors may acquire residential estates within a designated integrated tourist resort (ITR) without obtaining approval under the foreign investment guidelines. In most industry sectors, the Government approves proposals to establish new businesses involving total investments of $A 10 million or more and those to acquire existing businesses with total assets valued at $A 5 million or more ($A 3 million or more if more than half of the assets of the business are attributable to rural land) unless judged to be contrary to the national interest. Certain restrictions apply to proposed acquisitions of real estate, but approval is normally granted to (1) acquisitions of real estate for development; (2) purchases of vacant residential land (on condition that development occurs within 12 months) and home units and townhouses that are "off the plan" or under construction (on condition that no more than half of the units in any one development are sold to foreign interests); and (3) acquisitions of developed nonresi- dential commercial real estate, subject to 50 percent Australian equity participation (unless not available). In applying the policy, the authorities make every effort to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes and recognize the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the For- eign Investment Review Board, which acts as an independent advisor to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and advise foreign investors in formulating their pro- posals. In May 1992, the Reserve Bank began con- sidering applications from foreign banks seeking authorization for branches and/or subsidiaries. All foreign corporations seeking authorization to con- duct banking business in Australia must satisfy the Reserve Bank of their willingness and capacity to adhere to high standards of prudential manage- ment. Foreign bank branches are not required to maintain "endowed capital" in Australia and, con- sequently, the Reserve Bank does not impose any capital-based large exposure limits. Gold Australia has no restrictions applying to owning, buying, selling, importing, or exporting gold and gold coins, with the exception of the importing and exporting of Krugerrand and other coins minted in South Africa. If the exportation or importation of coins (together with any notes) exceeds $A 5,000, it must be reported under the Financial Transaction Reports Act of 1988. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control June 4. Foreign exchange transactions and pay- ments to the authorities in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), their agencies, or their nationals were prohibited without the spe- cific approval of the Reserve Bank. Capital May 21. The Reserve Bank began considering applications from foreign banks seeking authoriza- tion for branches and /or subsidiaries. All foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 31 corporations seeking authorization to conduct banking business in Australia must satisfy the Reserve Bank of their willingness and capacity to adhere to high standards of prudential manage- ment. Foreign bank branches were not required to maintain "endowed capital" in Australia and, con- sequently, the Reserve Bank would not impose any capital-based large exposure limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schill- ing. Without assuming any formal obligations, the authorities aim at maintaining a stable relationship with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward transactions are permitted. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank (the central bank) does not intervene in the forward market or provide cover for the forward positions of commercial banks. On December 31, 1992, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SI 1.304 and SI 1.404, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 1,1962. Administration of Control Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the central bank. Cer- tain restrictions on payments and transfers for cur- rent international transactions to the Government of Iraq are still in force. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted on August 14, 1952, Austria notified the Fund on July 7,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Export and import licenses required under the Foreign Trade Act of 1984 and its amendments must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Eco- nomic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. In instances where the cus- toms authorities are authorized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of these ministries, the licenses are granted without delay or formal appli- cation (automatic licensing) when the goods clear customs. Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. Nonresident Accounts There is only one category of nonresident account in schillings, namely, free schilling accounts. These accounts may be freely opened by Austrian banks on behalf of nonresidents and are not subject to restrictions. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident accounts in foreign currencies. These are subject to the same conditions as free schilling accounts. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the Annexes to the For- eign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quanti- tative restriction. For most goods, except for certain agricultural products, licenses are granted by cus- toms at the time of clearance, irrespective of the country from which the goods are imported. Nearly all imports from General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and certain other countries have been liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied world- wide, with the exception of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Tex- tiles. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discretionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to spec- ified imports from GATT countries and apply only to potatoes, wheat, cornstarch, preserved meat, and wine. Discretionary individual licensing is applica- ble to all other private imports. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely a f fect domestic industries. Grains, milk, and butter, as well as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption, are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 33 Agricultural Marketing Law and the law that gov- erns livestock farming and trading and the market- ing of livestock produce. Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for peri- ods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Aus- tria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Cus- toms Preference Act, which covers the second ten- year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from developing countries, and in particu- lar, of the least developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligi- ble for preferential treatment has been extended on a regular basis. Payments for Invisibles Residents are permitted to conclude transactions with nonresidents involving invisible payments without restriction. Residents traveling abroad for purposes of tour- ism may purchase foreign exchange from autho- rized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresidents without limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law must be obtained from the relevant min- istry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due con- sideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements, the fulfillment of quotas estab- lished in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be deposited with- out restriction. Persons entering Austria may import Austrian or foreign bank notes and coins without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian secu- rities and shares and participation by nonresidents in Austrian companies are unrestricted. The acqui- sition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Nonresidents are permitted to issue bonds on the domestic market. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are also not permitted to invest in the auditing, mining, energy, transporta- tion, or legal sectors, nor are they permitted to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships regis- tered in Austria. Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Nonresidents' direct investments in Austria and the purchases of Aus- trian or foreign equities do not require approval. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs is permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresidents, as well as to foreign banks and financial institutions. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend for- eign agencies or individually owned firms; earn- ings accrued from such investment may be freely used. Residents are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, and to purchase from nonresidents securi- ties denominated in Austrian and foreign curren- cies without restriction. Residents are also permitted to open bank accounts abroad and to issue bonds abroad. Gold The Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for certain gold imports (for example, gold sheets). The licenses are issued either by the Ministry for Economic Affairs to industrial users or by the cus- toms office. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Azerbaijan is the Manat, and it circulates alongside the Russian ruble. The official exchange rate for the manat is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to the Russian ruble at a rate of 10 rubles per 1 manat. Pending the full introduction of the manat, most foreign exchange transactions involve the conversion of rubles into U.S. dollars. The exchange rates of the manat against con- vertible currencies are set by the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) on the basis of the exchange rate of the Russian ruble for the U.S. dollar in the Moscow Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange, and the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market.2 These rates are applied to all transactions. On December 31, 1992, the market exchange rate quoted by the ANB was rub 450 per US$1 (buying) and rub 520 per US$1 (selling). Autho- rized banks are free to set selling rates, which usually vary according to the size of the transaction. These rates at the International Bank are published weekly, three days after the ANB publishes the official fixing rates of the Central Bank of Russia. At the end of December 1992, the spread between the buying and the selling rates for U.S. dollars, including a fixed commission of 2 percent, ranged from 13 percent for transactions of $200 to 53 percent for transactions of $1,000. Nine commercial banks plus the International Bank are authorized to transact in foreign exchange, but at the end of 1992 only three in addition to the International Bank conducted foreign exchange trans- actions. These banks negotiate bilateral rates for indi- vidual transactions between their customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Law on the Azerbaijan National Bank. The law con- fers on the ANB the responsibility for regulating the exchange rate of the manat, for conducting foreign currency operations, and for administering gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange, for regulating foreign exchange operations, including implementing and monitoring compliance with the law, and for establishing pru- dential rules on foreign exchange operations. Pending the approval of the Law on Foreign Eco- nomic Activity, foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) established in June 1992 by presidential decree. The Law on the Customs Service regulates the organiza- tion and operations of the Customs Service. Enter- prises engaged in foreign trade must register with the Ministry of Justice. Import licenses for petro- leum, cotton, and other goods considered strategic are issued by the MFER, and export quotas are determined by the Ministry of Economy. Laws on Foreign Exchange Regulation and Free Economic Zones under consideration will regulate capital transactions in foreign exchange. At present there are no registration requirements for foreign private investment in joint ventures. Investment abroad by Azeri individuals or companies is regu- lated by a state decree that limits the opening of for- eign exchange accounts in foreign countries. A license from the ANB must be obtained to open these accounts. Pending the full introduction of the manat, regu- lations on the availability and use of the Russian ruble are covered in a specific agreement between Azerbaijan and Russia on coordinated monetary and credit and foreign exchange policy, dated Sep- tember 30,1992. Prescription of Currency Residents of the Republic of Azerbaijan may, once a transaction is approved, make and receive payments and transfers in any convertible currency and in rubles. Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of corre- spondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Azerbaijan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.3 ]The Republic of Azerbaijan became a member of the IMF on September 18,1992. Seventeen currencies are considered convertible, with the Turkish lira convertible only for small transactions. 3At the end of 1992, Azerbaijan maintained bilateral trade agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. These agreements provide for settlements in convertible currencies. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident and Nonresident Accounts Payments for Invisibles AZERBAIJAN 35 Resident persons or enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts maintained at banks abroad with the authorization of the ANB. Criteria for converting ruble amounts held in Azer- baijan for transfer to these accounts have not yet been formulated. (Such transfers are, however, rare at present and allowed only with the permission of the ANB.) Residents may freely open and use for- eign currency accounts maintained at licensed banks in Azerbaijan. No declaration of the origin of the foreign exchange is required. Foreign exchange held in these accounts may be transferred to the res- ident holder's bank account abroad upon authori- zation or freely converted into domestic currency. Nonresident persons and enterprises may freely open foreign exchange accounts with licensed domestic banks. Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for rubles or manats. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in rubles or manats and use them for domestic transactions in accordance with the instructions issued by the ANB. Foreign governments and international institutions may open and operate manat or Russian ruble accounts with specific authorization from the ANB. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be made in rubles or manats, including bank notes, or through the system of cor- respondent accounts operated by the ANB and the commercial banks. Payments for imports from countries outside the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made in accordance with normal commercial practices. There are no restrictions on the use of for- eign exchange for imports from enterprises' own accounts. There are no license requirements for imports. However, all imports are effectively controlled through bilateral trade agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. or through the system of con- tract registration. For imports from other states of the former U.S.S.R., volumes and prices are con- strained by export licenses and contracts in the originating state. A few imports are banned for health, environmental, or security reasons. Duties are not levied on imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. In principle, imports from other countries are subject to the high and widely dispersed tariff rates of the former U.S.S.R.; in prac- tice, however, this regime is not in operation. A cus- toms fee of 1.5 percent is levied on imports from all sources. Although there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of funds held in foreign currency accounts at the International Bank, residents may, upon pre- senting their travel documents, purchase only $1,000 a year from a licensed foreign exchange dealer to travel abroad. The exportation of ruble and foreign bank notes is regulated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance in conformity with customs regulations. In principle, ruble bank notes may not be exported to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. Exports and Export Proceeds Resident persons and enterprises are required to repatriate proceeds from exports within three months and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azer- baijan within ten days of receipt unless specifically exempted by the Government. Expenses, commis- sions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to transfers to a licensed bank. After transfer to a licensed bank, proceeds are deposited in the export- ers' foreign exchange accounts or in the Republican Hard Currency Fund (RHCF)4 (in accordance with Decree No. 604 of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 3, 1992), as follows: (1) exporters of "goods considered strategic" may retain 30 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and keep them in foreign exchange accounts or convert them into local currency at the market exchange rate. The remaining 70 percent is surrendered to the RHCF, and exporters receive the domestic currency counterpart, which is calculated as export volume times the domestic cur- rency price; (2) the surrender requirement ratios for "nonstrategic goods" range up to 50 percent, and surrendered foreign exchange is converted at the market exchange rate. The retained foreign exchange may be kept by the exporter in foreign exchange accounts or is converted into local currency. All exporters must surrender 5 percent of their retained foreign exchange earnings to licensed banks at the market exchange rate, and the proceeds are used to provide foreign exchange for travel by residents. Exports of strategic goods must be licensed by the Ministry of Economy, and they are issued up to global quotas set for each product by this Ministry 4 The RHCF consists of a Presidential Fund (to finance essen- tial imports such as wheat and medicine), a Fund for the Council of Ministers (to finance imports related to infrastructure devel- opment), and an Enterprise Fund (to finance certain approved imports). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 AZERBAIJAN on the basis of an estimation of production and domestic consumption. Sub-quotas are set for exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. in accor- dance with bilateral agreements. The MFER issues licenses freely to exports within quota limits, sub- ject to verification of the contract. Most licenses are specific, but some general licenses are issued to oil exporters. Exports of all strategic goods are chan- neled through Azerbintorg, a self-financed foreign trade organization. No licenses are required for exports of nonstrategic goods. Some export bans exist, mainly on defense equipment. A customs fee of 1.5 percent is levied on exports to all destinations. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within three months and transferred to a licensed bank within ten days of receipt. The importation of ruble and foreign bank notes is regulated by the ANB and the Ministry of Finance in conformity with customs regulations. abroad by the Government is subject to an annual ceiling determined by Parliament. Foreign exchange transactions of private investors are protected by the Law on Protection of Foreign Investment, adopted on January 15, 1992. Under this law, the legal treat- ment of foreign investment cannot be less favorable than that extended to domestic investment, and for- eign investment may receive preferential treatment. Foreign investment is protected from nationaliza- tion and expropriation unless state interests or force majeure is involved. If nationalization or expropria- tion occurs, adequate compensation is paid. Profits may be reinvested in local currency, held in Azer- baijan, or converted into foreign currency and transferred without restriction. Foreign investors are granted certain privileges: enterprises or joint ventures with foreign equity capital ownership of more than 30 percent are entitled to a two-year holi- day on profit taxes; imports and exports of goods and services may be undertaken without licenses; and exporters of manufactured goods are allowed to retain 100 percent of their exchange earnings. Capital Gold Pending the adoption of the Law on Foreign Eco- nomic Activity, inward private capital transfers require approval from the ANB, and borrowing A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l per US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are in addition to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of 1.5 percent is applied to all outward remittances. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium above the offi- cial market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas when the resident is due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a con- tractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of future requirements without the Central Bank's permission. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign currency forward with nonresidents without prior approval from the Central Bank. Com- mercial banks may deal forward among themselves at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no forward cover arrangements in the official sector. 1 Foreign currency that the Central Bank permits to be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permis- sion may exist for foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securi- ties; or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of prop- erty; or of direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and for the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. In 1992, the volume of transactions in this market amounted to less than $1 million. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 5,1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the police department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Set- tlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dol- lars through an external account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open external accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for win- ter residents and for persons with residency per- mits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval from the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident com- panies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval from the Central Bank. Balances may be 2 Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Baham ian dollar. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 THE BAHAMAS converted freely into foreign currency and trans- ferred abroad.4 Accounts credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are des- ignated as blocked accounts and are held mainly by emigrants. When the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a blocked account. Balances on blocked accounts are transfer- able through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the approval of the Central Bank, in certain resident- held assets, or they may be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health-related reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required to make payments for imports, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is nor- mally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of good. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers can make payments to nonresi dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments may be made for commissions, royalties, education, freight, ships' disbursements, and insur- ance payments. Residents are entitled, on applica- tion to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance equivalent to B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and to B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allow- ance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of the official amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona 4 Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted tem- porary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Baham ian dollars. 5 Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. fide applications. Foreign exchange obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$l0,000 a person for the academic year is normally granted upon appli- cation. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and sal- aries, but if commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50 percent of wages and salaries, addi- tional amounts may be remitted. Temporary resi- dents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. A traveler may export Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not export the bank notes of any other country, except with specific approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for craw- fish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The pro- ceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the importation of foreign bank notes. The importation of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents do not require exchange control approval, although the subse- quent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Cen- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 39 tral Bank is required for any action whereby non- residents acquire control of or participate in an incorporated company controlled by residents. Res- ident individuals and companies require the spe- cific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts abroad.6 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment (whichever is greater) for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue there- after. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval from the Central Bank, by foreign cur- rency purchased in the investment currency mar- ket, or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a non- resident. Special procedures apply to investments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisition by For- eign Persons) Act of 1981, which came into effect on November 1, 1983. Foreigners intending to pur- chase land must apply to the Foreign Investments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Gov- ernment. If such an application is approved, pay- ment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, per- mission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are per- mitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property per family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for per- sonal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the mainte- nance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with for- eign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances to non- resident beneficiaries under the wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permis- sion is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Immovable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act of 1981. Residents may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 per donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permis- sion, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered residents for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, notably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of cer- tain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an external account, in funds eligible for credit to an external account, or in Bahamian dollars obtained by selling foreign currency in the official foreign exchange market. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities in The Bahamas and all swaps in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the swap takes place, require permission from the Cen- tral Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Ster- ling Area countries are considered foreign currency 6 Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7 Thirteen banks and trust companies are authorized to deal in Baham ian and foreign currency securities and to receive securi- ties as deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 THE BAHAMAS securities. Sales proceeds from such resident-held foreign currency securities, if registered at the Cen- tral Bank by December 31,1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Gen- erally, they may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B $25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also take their house- hold and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the offi- cial exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time. Once a person is redesignated a nonresident, income accru- ing from assets remaining in The Bahamas is remit- table at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain per- mission to pay interest on, and to repay the princi- pal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is con- ditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresi- dents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not allowed to raise working capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small pro- portion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local cur- rency borrowing is determined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permission to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is con- trolled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from resi- dents either for fixed or working capital. Instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign cur- rency, and foreign currency loans are normally per- mitted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import du ty is imposed on these items. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry also do not require a license but are subject to an import du ty of 35 percent. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to cus- toms is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position as of December 32,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 per SDR1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of ±7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has main- tained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency; since Decem- ber 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 per US$2.6596. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained unchanged since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates to banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deut- sche mark, based on the latest available U.S. dollar rates against those currencies. The BMA does not deal with the public. On December 31, 1992, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark but are autho- rized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transac- tions up to BD 1,000). Bank rates for other curren- cies are based on the BMA's U.S. dollar rates and the New York market rates against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of the banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 20,1973. Administration of Control The BMA is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be regis- tered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of. the Bahrain Chamber of Com- merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tariffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities but are 20 percent on vehicles, 50 percent on tobacco, and 125 percent on alcoholic beverages. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in Bahrain and member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10 percent for goods produced in Bahr- ain and 5 percent for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all com- modities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BAHRAIN Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, except that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remit- tance of profits. Licensed offshore banking units may freely engage in transactions with nonresi- dents, although transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The stock exchange began operations on January 2, 1989, and trading on the floor of the exchange began on June 17,1989. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Brokers doing business in gold and other commodities must obtain approval from the BMA before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture. Such businesses are subject to a minimum deposit requirement equiva- lent, in the case of gold, to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with refer- ence to a weighted basket consisting of the curren- cies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1992, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 39.90 per US$1, and the spot buying and selling rates of Ban- gladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized deal- ers were Tk 38.95 and Tk 38.95, respectively, per US$1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 38.9087 and Tk 39.0913, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Forward facilities at authorized banks are avail- able in all approved foreign currencies and in curren- cies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU),1 covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and cover- ing up to three months for remittances of surplus col- lection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. Both forward buying and selling rates are quoted by Bangladesh Bank. On December 31, 1992, the for- ward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for six month's delivery) quoted by Bangladesh Bank were Tk 38.95 and Tk 39.26, respectively, per US$1. The authorized banks may in their turn take forward cover in the interbank market or from Bangladesh Bank against transactions entered into through for- ward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks may also take forward cover for one month from Bangladesh Bank against sight export bills negotiated and enter into forward contracts with their overseas branches/correspondents against underlying export or import transactions. Authorized banks are permitted to retain rela- tively small working balances with their foreign correspondents, and currency swaps are not per- mitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transactions. Forward transactions of Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese Members of the ACU are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. yen, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member countries of the ACU. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The 7 foreign and 11 domestic commercial banks (of which 3 are nationalized), together with 3 joint-ven- ture banks and 4 specialized financial institutions, have been appointed authorized dealers (autho- rized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit authorization forms are issued by authorized dealers and do not require a separate import license. Certain trade transactions are con- ducted through state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 normally must be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements, up to agreed value limits; settlements with these coun- tries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services that are not specified in the agreements or that exceed the value ceilings speci- fied in the agreements. Payments to and receipts from the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected through the ACU in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU).3 Settlements with other countries nor- mally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through nonresident taka accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with 2 Bulgaria, China, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, Myanmar, Poland, Romania, and the states o f the fo rme rU .S .S .R. 3 The AMU is equivalent in va lue to the SDR and is used for recording transac t ions through the ACU. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 BANGLADESH the exception of those countries from which impor- tation is prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresident bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the cur- rency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. All settle- ments with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated nonresident accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be opened by authorized deal- ers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank for Bangladeshi nationals and foreign nationals who reside abroad and for foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to these accounts may be made in the account holder's absence by authorized dealers without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Certain other deb- its and credits may be made without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank but are subject to ex post reporting. Convertible taka accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit organizations (including charitable organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their respective personnel), foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploration in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, UN organizations and other international organizations, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh (regardless of their status) are allowed to maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely at any time for local dis- bursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between convert- ible taka accounts are freely permitted. Foreign mis- sions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign airline and shipping companies, and interna- tional nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned can be disbursed only in local currency 4 The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. Foreign currency accounts of Bangladeshi nationals working abroad. Bangladeshi nationals and persons of Bangladeshi origin who are working abroad are per- mitted to open foreign currency accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (bank notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they have been declared to cus- toms upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES); and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without restriction, but debits for the following purposes must be reported to Bangladesh Bank: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other foreign currency accounts opened under the WES; (3) payments for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges con- nected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures up to prescribed limits abroad for business or private purposes. For private travel, the upper limit is the equivalent of $400 a person a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for air travel to Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka (but up to only $150 for overland travel to India); and $1,800 a person a year and a maximum of $1,200 a trip for travel to other countries. Nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Ban- gladeshi nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks; other financial institutions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Ban- gladeshi missions and government institutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open interest-bearing nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in ini- tial minimum amounts of $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners), with remittances in convertible curren- cies and transfers from existing foreign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladeshi nation- als abroad. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at rates that are 1 percentage point higher than Eurocurrency deposit rates. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in for- eign exchange by the account holder to his or her country of residence or anywhere he or she chooses; the account holder may also transfer the balance to any foreign currency deposit account maintained by Bangladeshi nationals abroad. The balances in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 45 accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to Bangladesh Bank, and the accounts may be retained for up to five years from the date of the account holder's return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh; Ban- gladesh Bank may consider requests to extend the time limit. Nonresident Bangladeshis who do not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a nonresident foreign currency deposit with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. These accounts may be maintained for up to five years from the date of their return to Bangladesh, and Bangladesh Bank may consider requests to extend the time limit in cases of necessity. Resident foreign currency deposit (RFCD) accounts. Resident Bangladeshis, at the time of their return from travel abroad, may bring in any amount of for- eign currency with declaration and up to $2,500 or the equivalent without declaration and may main- tain an RFCD account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions aris- ing from business deals in Bangladesh are not allowed to be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for future travels in the usual manner. These accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for up to five years from the date of last deposit or until the balance is exhausted, whichever is earlier. Payments of interest in foreign exchange at rates determined by Bangladesh Bank are allowed on balances of not less than $1,000 or £500 if the deposits are for a term of not less than one month. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or from foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports are guided by an annual IPO announced by the Government. The IPO for the fiscal years 1991/92 and 1992/93 (July to June) was, however, announced in July 1991. The controlled list contains 93 items in about 1,240 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes, following the announcement of liber- alization of 100 categories of the list in August 1992. The importation of these items is restricted or pro- hibited either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are produced locally. During 1992, restrictions were eliminated on 59 categories of imports, and the "right of refusal" provisions were removed on 51 items. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inputs, certain tex- tiles, factory rejects, goods of substandard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. Items not specified in the IPO are freely importable provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All importers (including all government depart- ments with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Con- troller, registered industrial importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by autho- rized dealer banks without an import license. Sin- gle-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are other- wise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Authorized dealers may effect remittances within 12 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importation of commercial items, industrial raw materials, and packing materials and within 18 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Recognized export-oriented ready-made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse system may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis of up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization from Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period established by the Board of Investment. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment to import specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials that are freely importable but does apply to items appear- ing on the controlled list. Separately, industrial con- sumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BANGLADESH used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Authorized dealers may establish letters of credit on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of Ban- gladesh Bank, subject to the following conditions: (1) cost of goods, cost of freight, and insurance will be accommodated within the amount recorded in the LCAF issued in favor of the importer; (2) cost of freight will be paid locally out of the LCAF value in local currency; and (3) other directives of the IPO will be duly complied with. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval from Bangladesh Bank, which is normally given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for for- eign exchange for business travel, medical treat- ment, and education abroad are considered individually. For medical treatment, the total amount required is granted, subject to the approval of Bangladesh Bank. The allowance for personal travel by resident Bangladeshi nationals to coun- tries other than Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $1,800 a year, sub- ject to a maximum of $1,200 a visit; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $400 a per- son a year. Exporters maintaining retention accounts may use the funds on these accounts to cover travel expenses abroad without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family main- tenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of net salaries if the Government approves the terms of employment. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their departure; if they made no declaration, they may reconvert up to $150. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted. A Bangladeshi or a for- eign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic cur- rency; otherwise, the exportation of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Authorized dealers are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders without the prior approval of Bangladesh Bank, on receiving from the companies concerned applications supported by an audited balance sheet and profit-and-loss account, a board resolution declaring dividends out of profit derived from the normal business activities of the company, and an auditor's certificate that tax liabili- ties are covered. Authorized dealers may remit prof- its of foreign firms operating in Bangladesh, other than banks, insurance companies, financial institu- tions, shipping companies, and airlines, to their head office on receipt of applications supported by docu- mentation. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by Bangladesh Bank. Applica- tions for remittances of profits to head offices by the latter group of foreign firms are, however, subject to prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of ju te and jute goods must be registered with Bangladesh Bank. Export- ers of low value-added products are permitted to retain 5 percent, and others 10 percent, of the pro- ceeds from exports; they may use the proceeds for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad, participation in trade fairs and semi- nars, and imports of raw materials and capital goods. Joint ventures, other than in the garment indus- try, located in export processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 70 percent of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account and place the remaining 30 percent in a bank account in domestic currency. Balances on domestic currency bank accounts may be converted into foreign exchange to make payments for imports. The retention rate for the garment industry is 75 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered, but Bangladeshi nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in foreign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifically exempted by Ban- gladesh Bank, all Bangladeshi nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 47 However, returning residents may keep up to $2,500 without declaration, in person or in a foreign currency account opened in their name; the entire amount of foreign exchange brought in and declared may be kept in these accounts. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to surren- der within one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or ser- vices rendered while in Bangladesh. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Bangladesh is, how- ever, exempt from this requirement. The importation of Bangladeshi currency notes and coins exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers, including Bangladeshi nationals working abroad, up to $5,000 without declaration and up to any amount without limit, provided the amount brought in is declared upon arrival in Bangladesh. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval, which is not normally granted for resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, includ- ing foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh must be declared to Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshi nationals. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh. The issuing and transfer of shares in favor of nonresidents against foreign investment are allowed without the prior permission of Ban- gladesh Bank subject to fulfillment of prescribed procedures. The transfer of Bangladeshi shares and securities from one nonresident holder to another nonresident holder also does not require prior approval from Bangladesh Bank. Nonresident per- sons and institutions, including nonresident Ban- gladeshis, may buy Bangladeshi shares and securities thrpugh stock exchanges in Bangladesh against freely convertible foreign currency remitted from abroad through the banking channels. Pro- ceeds from sales and dividends earned on the shares or securities bought in this manner may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Private sector industrial units in Bangladesh may borrow funds from abroad with the approval of the Board of Investment. Borrowing by nonresi- dent-owned or -controlled enterprises and lending by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Ban- gladesh also require approval from Bangladesh Bank. Authorized dealers may grant, without refer- ence to Bangladesh Bank and according to the banking norms, an unlimited amount of loans in domestic currency to foreign-owned manufacturing companies located in Bangladesh. Authorized deal- ers may also approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for exportation from Bangladesh to companies controlled by per- sons residing outside Bangladesh. Authorized deal- ers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not nor- mally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. Expatriate workers may transfer abroad, at the time of completion of employment, their savings provided that their salaries and benefits were ini- tially certified by the Board of Investment. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protec- tion) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The act provides for the protection and equi- table treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, for- eign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, when the technology involved is very complicated or the capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export-oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors are gen- erally required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All investments in which the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 percent require the approval of the Board of Investment. Nonresidents must also obtain the per- mission of Bangladesh Bank to continue to operate or to establish an office or branch in Bangladesh for the purpose of trading or for commercial or indus- trial activities. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely a f ter payment of taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 Gold BANGLADESH The importation and exportation of gold and sil- ver in any form are prohibited without special per- mission, which is not normally granted. Exports of gold are allowed only in the form of jewelry under the Jewelry Export Scheme. There are no restric- tions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jew- elry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The Secondary Exchange Market Sys- tem (i.e., the Wage Earner's Scheme and the Export Performance Benefit Scheme) was abolished, and the exchange rate system was unified. March 31. The external value of the taka was adjusted from Tk 38.80 per US$1 to Tk 39.90 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments July 1. All customs duty rates, except those for certain specified luxury goods, were reduced to 100 percent or less, and more than one-half of the duty rates above 100 percent were reduced to 75 percent or lower. A minimum tariff rate of 7.5 percent was imposed on products that were pre- viously not subject to customs duties. August 30. One hundred items (4-digit HS codes) were removed from the Control List. Payments for Invisibles July 1. Authorized banks were permitted to remit technical fees and royalties without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank, provided that the guidelines issued by the Board of Investment are observed. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The foreign exchange retention ratio for exporters was increased from 2-2.5 percent to 10 percent, except for exporters of low value-added products, including garments, for which the reten- tion ratio was set at 5 percent. July 1. The cash subsidy on ju te exports was abolished. Capital June 14 and July 18. Authorized banks were per- mitted (1) to lend to foreign-owned and -controlled industrial firms operating in Bangladesh without prior approval from Bangladesh Bank, and (2) to transfer savings of expatriates, at the time of the completion of employment in Bangladesh, pro- vided that their salaries and benefits were initially certified by the Board of Investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. They include commission charges of 0.125 percent buy- ing and 1.75 percent selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875 percent buying and 1.8125 percent sell- ing against the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Bar- bados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.5737 and BDS$1.6053, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.2371 and BDS$1.2619, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$3.0193 and BDS$3.0798, respec- tively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank of Barbados sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.1250 percent) but purchases only Eastern Caribbean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies deter- mined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Cen- tral Bank regulates the commission that the commercial banks may charge their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remittances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allow- ances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are sub- ject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central Government's exchange risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Com- lrThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. mercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The Central Bank and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve nor- mal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system stipu- lates that foreign exchange should normally be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transac- tions between residents and persons who are resi- dents of South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Labor, Consumer Affairs, and the Environment. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency, or through an exter- nal account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries, other than Jamaica, must be made either through external accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that com- mercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Bar- badian residents traveling to other CARICOM coun- tries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. With effect from September 21, 1991, the Bank of Jamaica abolished exchange control in Jamaica; as a result, settlements with residents of Jamaica are made in U.S. dollars. Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies foreign currency accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bar- bados dollar. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 BARBADOS opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account is opened. Other cred- its and debits require individual approval. Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts, maintained in Barbados dol- lars, may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other exter- nal accounts, with bank interest (payable on exter- nal accounts or blocked accounts), and with payments by residents for which the Central Bank has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payment covered by delegated authority to authorized deal- ers. Other debits and any overdrafts require indi- vidual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Bal- ances in blocked accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARICOM countries require individual licenses. Import- licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restric- tions. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while oth- ers are subject to temporary restrictions (particu- larly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Certain imports are pro- hibited, including various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list7' of garments that may be imported only if they have a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the pro- visions of the Oils and Fats Agreement among the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release foreign currency for advance payments for imports into Barbados up to the equivalent of BD$20,000 (c.i.f.). Other advance payments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, payments for all commercial trans- actions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain personal and sundry pay- ments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calendar year may be allo- cated for private travel inside or outside the CARI- COM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel inside the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses for education abroad (BDS$20,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a year, sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines (BD$500 a person a year), income tax refunds, official pay- ments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of trans- portation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Any person traveling to a .destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors may freely export any foreign currency they previously brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 51 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are sub- ject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct investments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and real estate abroad, require exchange control approval. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 a year for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling- in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare the assets they hold in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation of proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for pri- vate purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capi- tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years, at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years, at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years, at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized deal- ers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. A 6 percent tax is levied on portfolio investments of pension funds with foreign companies not regis- tered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in lim- ited circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numis- matic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 BARBADOS and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Labor, Consumer Affairs, and the Envi- ronment; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS1 (Position as of January 4,1993) Exchange Arrangements Belarus uses both the Russian Ruble and its own coupon, the Rubel. The Russian ruble is legal tender only in cash form in nonborder areas of Belarus and for purchases of items other than food, alcohol, and tobacco. The conversion ratio is, in principle, 10 Russian rubles (rub) per 1 rubel. Residents are permitted to convert up to rub 5,000 a month at this rate, whereas residents of the other states of the former U.S.S.R. visiting Belarus on business are per- mitted to convert up to rub 250 a day upon pay- ment of a 30 percent commission. People who visit Belarus for other reasons may exchange up to rub 2,000 a month upon payment of a 30 percent commission. For amounts exceeding rub 2,000 a month, a 50 percent commission is charged. There are restrictions on the conversion of non- cash ruble balances into cash balances. Since November 1992, a distinction drawn between non- cash Belarussian rubles and noncash rubles from the states of the former U.S.S.R. has led to a differ- entiation between cash and noncash exchange rates. Since November 1992, auctions of noncash ruble balances have been conducted. At the begin- ning of 1993, the exchange rate was Belarussian noncash rubles 1.19 per Russian noncash ruble I.2 Since November 1992, 50 percent of Russian ruble deposits earned from exports must be surrendered to the State Fund for Russian rubles administered by the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) at the exchange rate of 1:1.3 The exchange rate system consists of two rates for convertible currencies. The unified exchange rate, fixed once a week by the NBB and based on the transaction-weighted average rate obtained in foreign exchange transactions between commercial banks and their clients, is applied to all official transactions and for valuation purposes. A special "investment" rate applies to the sale of foreign exchange for direct foreign investment in Belarus and export proceeds surrendered to the State For- eign Exchange Fund. The investment exchange rate lrThe Republic of Belarus became a member of the IMF on Ju ly 10,1992. 2 The term "rubel" is used to refer to the local coupon. Non- cash balances are referred to as Belarussian rubles. 3 Since April 1,1993,100 percent of these earnings must be sur- rendered at the rate announced by the NBB (the previous auc- tion rate). is rub 300 per US$1. On January 4,1993, the market exchange rate was rub 573 per US$1. To repatriate profits, foreign investors must pay a 15 percent tax in convertible currency. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Parliament is responsible for legislating exchange control regulations and the NBB for administering them. The Council of Ministers con- trols the country's official foreign exchange reserves through the Ministry of Finance (State Foreign Exchange Fund), and local governments control the local foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange for official import payments is administratively allo- cated through the state and local government for- eign exchange funds. Foreign exchange regulations to vest the NBB with the authority to control official foreign exchange reserves and to implement exchange rate policy are under preparation. Only commercial banks may obtain licenses to engage in foreign exchange transactions. Of the 25 commercial banks operating in Belarus, 13 of them hold a general license,4 which enables them to open correspondent accounts outside the former U.S.S.R., whereas 4 hold a domestic license,5 which enables them to conduct transactions outside the former U.S.S.R. through the 13 banks. Prescription of Currency Payments with countries with which Belarus has bilateral payments agreements are effected in the currencies specified in these agreements and in accordance with their regulations.6 The agreements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. provide for settlement through bilateral clearing accounts held 4 Brestkombank, Poisk Bank, Bel Business Bank, Prior Bank, Dukat Bank, Belarus Bank, Belrnescheconombank, Belpromstroi- bank, Savings Bank, Belagroprombank, Vestbank, Commercia- Bank, and Complet. 5 Domestic in this context refers to the territories of the states of the former U.S.S.R. 6 At the end of 1992, Belarus maintained bilateral trade and /or payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Finland, Hungary, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Slovenia, and Viet N am. Bilateral clearing accounts have been established with all of the states of the former U.S.S.R. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BELARUS with central banks or authorized commercial banks. Settlement is to take place in convertible currencies, national currencies, or rubles; a number of states of the former U.S.S.R. signed an agreement in October 1992 that they will use only the ruble in nonbarter transactions among themselves. Foreign trade pay- ments outside this sphere are made in convertible currency. A significant share of trade is conducted in the framework of barter agreements. An attempt is being made to balance the trade with a cash trad- ing partner, but if an imbalance emerges, they are settled, in principle, with deliveries of goods or in convertible currency. Since September 9, 1992, bar- ter trade of certain goods has required approval from the Council of Foreign Economic Relations (CFER). Payment in foreign currency for goods and ser- vices (including wage payments) in transactions among residents is only allowed with a special permit from the NBB. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks in Belarus authorized to handle foreign exchange (authorized banks). Residents may maintain bank accounts abroad only with the permission of the NBB. Foreign exchange received by resident juridical persons as a result of foreign economic activities must be repatriated to accounts of authorized banks in Belarus, unless the CFER waives this requirement. Nonresident juridical persons may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad, proceeds from sales of goods and ser- vices in the ruble area to residents and nonresi- dents, debt-service payments, interest earned on balances in the accounts, funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus, and earnings from investments in the states of the former U.S.S.R. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for invest- ments in the states of the former U.S.S.R. as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or exchanged for rubles at the unified exchange rate through the authorized banks. Nonresident juridical persons may also open two types of accounts in the official currency of Belarus at authorized commercial banks. The first type, "L" accounts, may be credited with the ruble counter- part of foreign exchange sold to the NBB or autho- rized banks; dividends from foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures; returns on securities; and the proceeds from sales of such securities within Belarus. Funds from these accounts are freely usable in the ruble area and may be con- verted into foreign currency at the unified exchange rate. The second type, "N" accounts, may be funded by proceeds from the sale of goods pro- duced in Belarus or received from residents. Bal- ances in these accounts may be used only for business travel expenses; to purchase inputs used for the production of products for export from Belarus; to purchase foreign exchange at the free exchange rate at auctions (up to the limit of .the nonresidents' initial investment plus proceeds from sales of their output in Belarus); for payment of wages; and for investment purposes as determined by the Government with permission from the CFER. Imports and Exports Trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. is conducted (1) under intergovernmental agree- ments; (2) through intermediation by former minis- tries or other agencies involved in resource distribution; (3) through interenterprise deals; and (4) through commodity exchanges. The bilateral trade agreements Belarus maintains with other countries include an appendix that spec- ifies in volume terms the amounts of about 150 products to be delivered during the period covered by the agreement. The signatory governments guar- antee that the specified volumes will be provided to the partner country. In most cases, the guarantee takes the form of state orders if they are in effect in the partner country.8 Defense-related goods are excluded from trade agreements. Trade in these products that exceeds the volume specified in the appendices and trade in products not included in the appendices of the trade agreements are mainly conducted as follows. The ministries, agencies, or self-financing wholesale trade organiza- tions involved in controlling resource distribution periodically collect information on the demand and supply conditions regarding the products that fall in their respective areas of responsibility. They submit this information to their counterparts in the other states to match with their lists. When trade takes 7The term encompasses residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. that use the ruble, including the Russ ian Federation. 8Enterprises that produce for state orders have priority access to products exported under trade agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 55 place, the individual enterprises and organizations negotiate the terms of delivery. Convertible currency proceeds from exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. are subject to the same taxes and surrender requirements as those received from other countries. Resident natural and juridical persons must obtain a license to engage in foreign trading activi- ties (licenses are issued by the CFER). With the exception of goods on a short negative list (com- prising mainly arms and drugs), these licensed agents may trade in any product. Residents do not need a license or approval from the NBB to conduct foreign exchange operations related to trade, except for (1) down payments for imports or services exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent that represent more than 30 percent of the value of the goods or services imported; (2) import payments or export receipts not made within 180 days of the date of shipment;9 and (3) interest payments to nonresidents on returned down payments when an original contract is not fulfilled. Licenses or approvals for these exceptions are granted by the NBB on a case-by-case basis. Imports of the following products require a license: medicines, herbicides, industrial waste, movie films, and imports conducted in the frame- work of intergovernmental trade agreements. Since January 1, 1993, 20 percent of all foreign exchange proceeds have been required to be surren- dered to the State Foreign Exchange Fund at the special investment rate. Retained foreign exchange may be freely used by the exporting enterprise for import payments without any time limit. Joint ven- tures with foreign ownership of 30 percent or more that export their own products and receipts from foreign credits are exempt. Proceeds from barter exports are not subject to surrender requirements but are subject to taxes. Since January 1,1993, a flat export tax of 10 percent has been applied to foreign trade, including barter, which may be deducted from the income tax base. On February 3, 1992, the Council of Ministers decreed a formal licensing requirement for foreign exports of goods on an extensive list of "vital goods." In addition, export quotas are distributed among regulatory organizations and major produc- ing enterprises, associations, and "firms."10 The exportation of energy and raw materials under bar- 9 This exception also applies to consignatary agreements, bar- ter and compensatory deals, and re-exports. 10 The former Soviet Union's overall quota on exports of tex- tiles to the members of the European Community was distrib- uted among the states of the former U.S.S.R. ter arrangements is subject to administrative con- trol by the Committee for Barter Operations. Export and import taxes are levied on a temporary basis, in accordance with Resolution No. 202 of April 10, 1992 of the Council of Ministers of Belarus. Taxes are levied on products traded under barter arrange- ments and on a cash basis. Import taxes are levied on the following products (rates shown in parentheses): personal computers and parts (10 percent); spare parts for cars (5 percent); spirits (30 percent); cigarettes other than those manufactured in the United States, and wine (5 percent); cigarettes manufactured in the United States (10 percent); watches (30 percent); and refrigerators, tape recorders, video equipment, and television sets (20 percent). At present, imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are exempt from these taxes. Alcoholic beverages and consumer durables are subject to an import tax payable in Russian rubles. The main items subject to the export tax are the fol- lowing (rates shown in parentheses): oil, gas, refined oil products, scrap metal, paper, and wood products (10 percent); semifinished iron and steel products (20 percent); steel plates and nonferrous metal prod- ucts (30 percent); chemical products (4-8 percent); and fertilizers (3 percent). Enterprises are allowed to offset the tax against their income tax liabilities. At present, exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. are exempt from these taxes but are subject to taxes levied by local councils. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident individuals may purchase up to $500 a year at the free exchange rate for tourist travel. Larger amounts may be taken out with customs dec- laration proof that they were brought into Belarus or with a certificate from an authorized bank that they were exchanged legally. Purchases of foreign exchange for education, medical treatment, family maintenance, repatriation of salaries and wages, payments of insurance premiums, profit remittances, and purchases exceeding $10,000 require approval from the NBB. Salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in joint-venture enterprises may be remitted abroad without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Russian ruble bank notes up to rub 300 may be taken abroad or brought into the country. Residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. may pay for air and train tickets and hotel expenses in Russian rubles; nonresidents may be required to pay for these expenses in convertible currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 56 Capital BELARUS The properties owned by foreign investors in Belarus are protected from expropriation.11 Foreign investors are guaranteed full freedom to repatriate their initial investment capital and profits earned in Belarus. Repatriation of profits is subject to a tax of 15 percent payable in convertible currency. Foreign investment must be registered at the CFER and, in the case of financial institutions, also at the NBB. At the time of registration, the enterprise obtains a license to engage in activities in a particular area of specialization and may not pursue other activities. The proportion of equity capital share by nonresi- dents in direct investments is not restricted, except in the financial sector, in which the proportion is restricted to 50 percent. The value of the foreign currency portion of paid-up capital in Russian rubles is calculated at the special exchange rate quoted by the NBB. Joint-venture enterprises are free to set their own product prices. They may par- ticipate in foreign exchange auctions and commod- ity exchange transactions through authorized banks. nThe Law on Foreign Investment of the Supreme Soviet (dated November 14, 1991) guarantees that terms offered to for- eign investors would remain unchanged for at least five years. Nonresidents may take part in auctions of state property with their own funds. However, special coefficients that raise the price of state property for nonresidents are set by the Committee of State Property. The coefficients are set by the Council of Ministers, or their local agencies, and the Ministry of Finance and are announced to participants before auctions take place. Enterprises with more than 30 percent foreign capital ownership are permitted to export their products and import inputs necessary for their pro- duction without restriction. These enterprises are exempted from the income tax for three years from the first year the enterprise reports a profit. If the enterprise is deemed to be essential for the econ- omy of Belarus by the Council of Ministers, the income tax rate may be reduced by 50 percent for an additional three years. External borrowings by residents must be regis- tered with the Ministry of Finance, and the opening of bank accounts abroad requires approval from the NBB. Gold A license is required for the exportation of gold, which is on the short list of products (together with arms, radioactive materials, and narcotics) under the strictest licensing requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position as of January 31, 2993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate with Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accor- dance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxem- bourg maintain the spot exchange rates between their currencies and the currencies of the other par- ticipants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Cur- rency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On January 31,1993, these rates were as follows: 100 100 100 Specified Intervention Rates Per: Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 1 100 1,000 100 Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 553.0000 528.7000 2,109.5000 2,016.5500 628.9700 601.2950 50.8605 46.6230 1,872.1500 1,789.8500 236.7820 210.0250 30.0000 26.6075 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1992, the indicative middle rate for the U.S. dollar was BF33.18 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they lrThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and Italy withdrew on September 17,1992. may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The Belgian-Lux- embourg Administrative Commission has the authority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy but has delegated author- ity to issue import and export licenses to the licens- ing offices of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU), one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Banking and Finance Commission and in Luxembourg by the Luxembourg Monetary Insti- tute (LMI). For purposes of compiling balance of payments statistics, residents are required to transmit to the Belgian-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI) the following information on all of their professional transactions with foreign countries: amount, cur- rency, economic nature, and country of residence of the foreign party in the transaction. For foreign pay- ments executed or received through a bank in Bel- gium or Luxembourg, residents provide this information to the BLEI through their banks; for all other professional foreign transactions, residents report to the BLEI directly on a monthly basis. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Belgium notified the Fund on July 7, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolutions No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) certain imports from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Democratic Peo- 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG pie's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roma- nia, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam; 2 and (2) certain specified imports from all other countries,3 including many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and food- stuffs, coal and petroleum products, diamonds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other com- modities are free of license. Many commodities sub- ject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Along with other European Community (EC) countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries in the framework of the Multifi- ber Arrangement (MFA) and also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non- EC countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely Domestic and foreign bank notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for a few prod- ucts, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural and iron and steel products. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Domestic and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the BLEU by nonresidents or abroad by residents. There are no restrictions on transactions in Belgian or Luxembourg francs or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits from residents or nonresidents. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capi- tal market by nonresidents and for public bids by nonresidents for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies.4 Belgium/Luxembourg franc-denominated bonds may be issued freely on the Luxembourg capital mar- ket. They are reported ex post to the Luxembourg Monetary Institute, mainly for statistical purposes. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins and bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Settlements of gold may be made freely. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are sub- ject to a 1 percent value-added tax in Belgium. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) 2 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of prod- ucts when originating in and shipped from these countries. 3 Most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the European Community. 4 Since J anu a ry 1,1991, this approval is no longer needed if the foreign company or individual involved is a resident of an EC country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 per US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175, respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of member countries of CARICOM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a for- eign currency. Belize accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14,1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for administering exchange control, which applies to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is ref- erence made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry administers trade controls. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. lrThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2 Barbados dollars, Canad ian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars, and U.S. dollars. Banks must have permission from the Central Bank to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may also stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization from the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 12 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a per- son, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of for- eign currency; and (4) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank, which grants all bona fide requests. Foreign exchange is provided for payment of correspondence courses by the authorized deal- ers when applications are properly documented. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 BELIZE except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these lim- its require the approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless directed otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are sub- ject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent. Re- exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but imports of foreign currency are not restricted. Resident travel- ers are required to sell their excess holdings of for- 3 Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild ani- mals. For sugar, the export duty is 2 percent. eign currencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank, but control is liberally administered. Direct foreign investment is encouraged, and inves- tors benefit from a number of fiscal incentives. Gold Residents may not hold gold except with specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles March 1. The foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased to BZ$5,000 a person a year from BZ$2,500, and the foreign exchange allowance for business travel was increased to BZ$20,000 a person a year from BZ$10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Banks may levy, and retain, a flat commission of CFAF 100 on transfers within the WAMU. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts may be arranged, with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The matu- rity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Como- ros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign coun- tries. For certain controls relating to capital flows, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collabora- tion with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, and the Postal Administration,, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by autho- rized intermediaries. Import licenses for goods from the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) State signatories to the Lome Convention and from member countries of European Community (EC) and Operations Accounts countries have been abol- ished. Imports from all other countries are subject to an import license issued by the Directorate in charge of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious metals require authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, upon recommendation from the Direc- torate of Monetary and Banking Affa irs of the Min- ister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing- house. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Certain settlements with China and specified socialist countries, however, are made through spe- cial accounts.2 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign accounts in francs with authorized intermediary banks. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct l fThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BENIN to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized intermediary bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a foreign account in francs opened by the latter with an authorized intermediary bank. For- eign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Certain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods originating in the EC, the Oper- ations Account countries, and countries belonging to the ACP group are free of import licensing requirements. All merchandise imports originating in other countries are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Before ship- ment, goods from all sources are subject to inspec- tion for quality and price. All imports that originate in foreign countries and are valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a doc- umentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Import licenses are subject to a tax equiv- alent to 0.85 percent of the c.i.f. value of corre- sponding imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized inter- mediary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. How- ever, with the special authorization of the Minister of Finance, larger allocations may be obtained up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and up to the equivalent of CFAF 1.75 million for business travel. The transfer of the net salary of a foreigner work- ing in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to Operations Account coun- tries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to cus- toms the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, subject to adjust- ment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in bank notes issued by the BCEAO or the Bank of France, or any other bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries, including the Oper- ations Account area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals, however, are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of articles with a small gold con- tent, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than ten pieces, irre- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 63 spective of their face value and denomination). Prior authorization for exports of these three prod- uct categories is granted by the Directorate of Mon- etary and Banking Affairs of the Ministry of Finance. Receipts from exports must be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the shipment at its destination. Proceeds must be repatriated to Benin through the BCEAO and sold to authorized banks within 30 days of the contractual due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account area. Resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval from the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government, and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries- linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and for- eign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Opera- tions Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of the investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.3 Foreign direct investments in Benin4 must be declared to the min- ister before they are made. The minister may request the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquida- tion of either type of investment also requires decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise. Investment that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange is not considered direct investment. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 4Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Benin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BENIN constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 90-002 of May 9, 1990) stipulates that preferential status may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism that are deemed to contribute to national develop- ment. Fiscal benefits are extended to approved investors under two regimes: the preferential and the special regimes. The preferential regime consists of three categories: A, B, and C. Category A applies to small and medium-size enterprises; Category B, to large enterprises; and Category C, to very large enterprises. Enterprises falling under Category A must have investments valued at between CFAF 20 million and CFAF 500 million and employ at least five per- manent Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from customs duties and levies on equip- ment and materials during the investment period (excluding the local roads and statistical taxes), as well as from income tax for five to nine years depending on the geographic location of their investment in Benin. Enterprises qualifying for Category B must undertake investments valued in excess of CFAF 500 million (but less than CFAF 3 billion) and employ at least 20 Beninese workers. These enterprises are exempt from virtu- ally all border taxes on imports of equipment and materials for the period the investment is being undertaken, and, for the duration of the invest- ment, they are exempt from export taxes and from taxes on profits. Enterprises qualifying for Category C benefits must undertake investments in excess of CFAF 3 billion. They enjoy the same tax and duty privileges as Category B enterprises. In addition, enterprises in this category are guaran- teed stability of tax status for the duration of the agreement. Enterprises qualifying under the special regime are those with investments valued at between CFAF 5 million and CFAF 20 million that provide services in health, education, or public works. They benefit from a 75 percent reduction in the applica- ble border taxes (excluding the local roads and sta- tistical taxes) on imported equipment and materials related to their operations. The modalities of imple- menting this legislation are set out in Decree No. 91-2 of January 4,1991. Gold Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the Directorate of Monetary and Banking Affairs of the Minister of Finance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious and semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Its external value is pegged to the Indian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 per Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India for those curren- cies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exchange rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsi- dies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 25.70 and Nu 26.55, respectively, per US$1, and the commercial banks' buying and selling rates were Nu 30.20 and Nu 31.20, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. The Ministry of Finance has delegated the power to the Royal Mon- etary Authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of imple- menting the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for imports. Royal Monetary Authority, which has discretionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties are levied on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at one of four rates ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Exports of antiques of Bhu- tanese origin require government approval. Pro- ceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees must be approved by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions must be approved by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees must have prior permission from the Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The exchange rate (the official selling rate) is deter- mined at auctions held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. This official exchange rate applies to all for- eign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Committee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Central Bank will not accept any bids. This floor price is the official exchange rate. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of $5,000 or mul- tiples of this amount; the minimum allowable bid is $5,000. Successful bidders are charged the exchange rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. On December 31,1992, the official selling rate was Bs 4.10 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public are subject to a commission of Bs 0.01 per US$1 over its buying rate. Except for the require- ment to surrender the net proceeds from the expor- tation of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals may buy and sell foreign exchange freely. Successful bids chan- neled through the banking system are voided if the banking institution submitting the bid is not com- plying with the legal reserve requirement on depos- its at the time of the auction. However, banks must maintain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auc- tion market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the buying and selling exchange rates on December 31, 1992, were Bs4.09 and Bs4.11, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 5,1967. The Central Bank is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender requirements as well as for other exchange control regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector pur- chases of foreign exchange for debt-service pay- ments. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country con- cerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the exception of those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Restrictions on imports of sugar were eliminated on October 13,1992. A uniform tariff rate of 10 percent is applied to all goods except for books and printed materials to which the rate of 2 percent is applied. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of 1.85 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Since July 26,1990, residents traveling by air to neighboring countries have been required to pay a travel tax of Bs 100; the tax on travel to other for- eign destinations is Bs 150. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Cen- tral Bank. Outward remittances of profit are gov- erned by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 67 Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export transaction. Exports other than hydrocar- bons are subject to an inspection fee, which is 1.55 percent for nontraditional products and 1.6 percent for traditional products. Nontraditional export products benefit from a duty drawback sys- tem, under which exporters may apply for reim- bursement of actual duties paid by providing all pertinent documentation or may opt for a simpli- fied procedure under which reimbursement is made at the rate of 2 percent or 4 percent of export value, depending on the degree of processing of the products exported. All exports of goods and ser- vices must be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, including those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the commercial banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sec- tor agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' cred- its, to government agencies and autonomous enti- ties and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11, 1983, financial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign govern- ment agencies, or external lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade oper- ations, such as letters of credit, bonds and guaran- tees, advances and acceptances, loans for required financing with their correspondents abroad, and other operations generally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law. In September 1990, the Investment Law of December 14,1981 was replaced by another investment law, under which domestic and foreign investors are treated equally (Law No. 1182 on Investment). The law is adminis- tered by the National Investment Institute. Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Hydrocarbons Law and the Mining Law. Cer- tain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments October 13. The licensing requirement on the importation of sugar was abolished. October 15. All imports originating from the Car- tagena countries were exempted from the customs duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula. Its external value in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising cur- rencies of the country's major trading partners. On December 31, 1992, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar was P 2.257 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 3.103 per SDR 1. Buying and selling rates for rertain other dealing curren- cies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. For infor- mation only, middle rates are quoted for certain other currencies.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. External borrowings by parastatals are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk Sharing Scheme. Effective Octo- ber 1,1990, however, the scheme ceased to apply to new borrowings undertaken by parastatals after that date. Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4 percent are fu l ly borne by the borrower, while risks associated with fluctuations between 4 percent and 15 percent are borne by the borrower and the Government on a 50:50 and 25:75 ratio, respectively. Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15 percent is fully borne by the Government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the Government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the com- mercial banks. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency pro- ceeds from exportation of goods is at least three months and, in some cases, up to six months. delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a for- eign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are gener- ally no import restrictions on goods moving among the five countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added requirements and are not intended for re-export. Import ship- ments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from exchange controls. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Administration of Control Exports and Export Proceeds Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has 1 Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swiss francs, and Zimbabwe dollars. 2Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, European Currency Units, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and SDKs. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account within six months of the date of exportation. Retention of export proceeds for up to one year to finance certain transactions may be per- mitted by the Bank of Botswana on a case-by-case basis. A few items, such as precious and semipre- cious stones, require permits before they can be exported. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 69 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits (that is, basic exchange allowances) is delegated to commercial banks; any remittances in excess of basic exchange allowances must be referred to the Bank of Botswana for prior approval. Once the bona fide nature of applications has been established and all other requirements have been fulfilled by the applicant, remittances are approved. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel by permanent residents is the equivalent of P 12,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 6,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel by permanent resi- dents is P 600 a day up to a maximum of P 35,000 a calendar year. The amount of unused foreign cur- rency for travel that a resident can retain for future travel use is the equivalent of P 1,000 in currency or traveler's checks; any excess amount must be sur- rendered within two months of the date of return in the case of currency notes and coins, and six months in the case of traveler's checks. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent residents to cover maintenance and incidental expenses other than fees or tuition is P 3,000 a month a person and P 5,000 a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 2,000 a year. A temporary resident employed on a contractual basis may remit abroad annually, with- out reference to the Bank of Botswana, P 25,000 or 65 percent of total eligible earnings, whichever is greater; the limit applicable to a self-employed tem- porary resident is P 50,000. The period during which temporary residents are allowed to remit their earnings abroad is a block of 36 months, or the period of employment, whichever is shorter. Sepa- rately, travelers residing in Botswana may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in amounts of P 500 and P 1,000, respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coins. Visitors may take out any foreign cur- rency that they brought in with them in addition to a maximum of P 500 in domestic currency. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the mainte- nance by residents of foreign currency accounts with banks abroad in cases where there is a proven commercial need for such a facility. Capital Pension and life insurance funds may invest up to one-half of their funds abroad. Applications for investment abroad of other funds are treated on their merits and in light of possible benefits to Botswana. Foreign inward direct investment in new or existing businesses is generally encouraged. Such investments must be financed with funds from external sources. On disinvestment by a non- resident, the Bank of Botswana allows immediate repatriation of proceeds up to a maximum of P 50 million. The excess may be required to be repa- triated in installments over a period not exceeding three years. Authorized dealers may approve remit- tances of dividends/profits without referring to the Bank of Botswana. Remittances of interim divi- dends are permitted only for companies listed in the Botswana Share Market. Inward portfolio investment is also permitted in shares issued by companies quoted in the Botswana Share Market, provided the funds for financing the acquisitions originate from a nonresident source. Nonresident- controlled companies incorporated in Botswana may make similar investments (referred to as inter- nal portfolio investments), which need not be financed with funds from external sources. In the case of both inward and internal portfolio invest- ments, a shareholder or his or her nominee may not acquire an interest in excess of 5 percent of the com- pany's paid-up stock. Total portfolio holdings by nonresidents, including nonresident-controlled companies, may not exceed 49 percent of the "free stock" of a local company, that is, total stock issued and paid up less stock held by direct investors. Nonresident-controlled companies may also invest with domestic currency funds in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Nonresident-con- trolled companies (including branches of foreign companies) are permitted to borrow locally to finance working capital requirements only up to P 500,000. Applications for local finance in excess of P 300,000 by nonresident-controlled companies may be considered by the Bank of Botswana, pro- vided that the resulting debt-equity ratio does not exceed 4:1. Borrowed funds may be used for work- ing capital purposes or for acquisition of new fixed assets (e.g., plant, machinery, equipment, and buildings); these funds may not be used to acquire financial assets. Equity is defined as paid-up capi- tal, reserves, and retained earnings. The 4:1 limit may be exceeded if there is evidence that the project will provide a specialist skill to Botswana or will create significant employment. Any external bor- rowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 25,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigra- tion allowance of up to P 150,000 in addition to household and personal effects whose value does ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BOTSWANA not exceed P 75,000. Applications for remittances in excess of these amounts are dealt with by the Bank of Botswana. Such remittances are normally autho- rized if the amount is not too large; if the amount is excessive, remittances may be permitted in install- ments over three years. Nonresident-controlled companies are allowed to invest domestically generated funds in pula as well as those from external sources in any securities issued by the Bank of Botswana. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles January 3. The limit of P 75,000 authorized dealers may approve for transfers of dividends and profits to nonresidents without referring to the Bank of Botswana was abolished. Capital November 2. (I) Nonresident-controlled compa- nies were permitted to invest in the securities of companies listed in the Botswana Share Market with funds not originating from a nonresident source; (2) the maximum limit for aggregate portfo- lio investments by nonresidents and nonresident- controlled companies (including their nominees) was increased from 25 percent to 49 percent of the "free stock" (defined as total stock issued and paid up less stock held by direct investors); and (3) as a result of the changes in (2) above, the eligibility of nonresident-controlled companies to borrow locally would be determined by applying the 4:1 debt-to- equity limitation af ter deducting the company's internal portfolio holding from equity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro (Cr$), the external value of which is determined by demand and supply conditions in the interbank exchange market. Transactions in the interbank exchange market are carried out by banks, dealers, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual exchange market." On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates in the interbank exchange market were Cr$12,387.00 and Cr$12,242.61, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates apply to "agree- ment dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. Foreign exchange transactions for amounts exceeding $100,000 are subject to brokerage fees. These fees, which are freely negotiated between parties, are calculated on a sliding scale and result in effective rates of up to 3/i6 of 1 percent on either side of the rates. A different effective rate arises, on the selling side, from the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operagoes relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios (IOF)) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of selected services. Different effective rates arise, on the buying side, from the operation of the manual exchange market in which the exchange rate for receipts from tourism is freely determined by participants in the market. Limits are fixed for the authorized banks' sold positions in foreign exchange based on the size of the banks' net foreign assets. There is no limit on bought positions. Banks are authorized to operate exclusively in the manual exchange market, and brokers and tourist agencies are permitted to main- tain long but not short positions. Authorized banks are required to deposit foreign exchange at the Cen- tral Bank of Brazil overnight in the amounts needed to eliminate an overbought position exceeding $2 million. The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days (for spot transac- tions) or not later than 180 days (for forward trans- actions). Commercial banks are permitted to provide forward exchange facilities to exporters, usually for a period of up to 180 days. The banks provide daily forward quotations for foreign cur- rencies, with forward premiums reflecting corre- sponding interest differentials between the countries concerned. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is respon- sible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange controls, regulations affecting for- eign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance enforces limits on for- eign borrowing by the public sector. The Ministry of Finance formulates foreign trade policy, and the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) implements this policy The SECEX issues export registration and import certificates (registros de export agao or registros de importagao). The Technical Department of Tariffs (DTT) of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism is respon- sible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DTT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance coordinates public sector import policy. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries1 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela 1A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Bulgaria. An agreement has been concluded with the former German Democratic Republic which will terminate a bilateral payments agreement on December 31, 1993. Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BRAZIL must be made through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with SECEX, and goods can be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports are grouped into the fol- lowing three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate issued by SECEX; and (3) prohibited imports (luxury boats with an initial sale price of $3,500 or more, agrochemical prod- ucts not authorized under Brazilian regulations, and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy). There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the Government, auton- omous agencies, and public enterprises).2 Most imports require the prior SECEX approval, which is given automatically to registered importers of nonprohibited items.3 SECEX is authorized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depending on the prod- uct. SECEX issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import certificates for a number of speci- fied imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed but before customs clearance. The importation of certain products requires the approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free trade zones are subject to an annual quota. For- eign goods up to the equivalent of $600 imported 2 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected import requirements. ?Selected imports are exempt from the prior approval require- ment, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the drawback scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. into the Manaus free trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. SECEX may approve applications for payment for imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without prior authorization from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed and accrued interest may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and a payment schedule issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on matu- rity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be set- tled on maturity of the d r a ft or two working days before the maturity date. Exchange contracts for imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Official education and research institutions and the Ministry for Health may settle exchange contracts up to 360 days prior to the maturity date. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Brazilian residents tem- porarily staying abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $4,000 a month in the foreign exchange market. The limit for educa- tional expenses is $4,000, and that for health care expenses is $100,000 plus $150 a day for incidental expenses for the patient and attendants, up to a total number of three. Payments for current invisi- bles not covered by current regulations require approval from the Central Bank's Exchange Depart- ment (DECAM) or the FIRCE; remittances are authorized freely, subject to the presentation of sup- porting documents as evidence that a bona fide cur- rent transaction is involved. Personal expenses connected with travel abroad may be obtained up to $4,000 a person, irrespective of age or destination, in the foreign exchange mar- ket. In addition, the use of credit cards up to a limit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 73 of $8,000 a card a month is permitted. Applications for larger purchases of foreign exchange for travel must be submitted to the Central Bank, which con- siders each case on its merits. Brazilian officials traveling abroad in the interest of the Government are granted allowances at a rate determined by the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks and for technical, scientific, and adminis- trative assistance are registered with the FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are nor- mally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. Profit remittances are subject to the withholding income tax at a rate of 25 percent or at the rate determined by the agreements concluded with the country concerned for the purpose of avoid- ing double taxation. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, and the like, may be deducted from income tax lia- bility to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5 percent of gross receipts; amounts exceeding this limit are considered profits. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to a 25 percent IOR Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes without restriction. Repurchases of for- eign exchange by a foreign traveler are limited to 50 percent of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of controls, but exports of cer- tain commodities require the prior approval of SECEX, whereas exports of others are prohibited. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodi- ties for which minimum export prices are fixed by SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports must be repatriated within 45 days and sold in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange con- tracts covering transactions may be closed either 180 days before the shipment of goods or within 45 working days of shipment. Pre-export financing may be obtained against exchange contracts (ACCs) up to a maximum period of 180 days. The exportation of hides of wild animals in any form is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual exchange market. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require prior approval from the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the pri- vate or public sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad; when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Trea- sury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution; and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (that is, the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). In addition, prior approval from the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the pri- vate sector when the foreign funds originate in finan- cial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although subse- quent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio invest- ment. For the purposes of repatriation and the remit- tance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capi- tal must be registered with the FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment used to produce goods or render ser- vices that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BRAZIL (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, pro- vided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans and includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as the foreign capital that constitutes part of the corporate capital and partici- pates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan, except portfolio investments. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad is con- sidered import-financing, whether financed by the manufacturer himself (suppliers' credit) or by a third party. Persons residing abroad may make indirect port- folio investments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities by acquiring shares in a Brazil- ian "investment company" quoted on the Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is $1,000. Portfolio invest- ments, which are exempt from the capital gains tax, may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund-Foreign Capital." The minimum participation in this fund is $5,000, and the money must stay in the country for at least three months. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad may maintain portfolios of bonds and other securities in Brazil once the con- stitutions and administrations of these entities have been approved by the Central Bank and Securities and Exchange Commission. Profits earned by for- eign institutional investors are exempt from income taxes but are subject to a 15 percent tax collected at the time of remittance abroad. The issuance of debentures that can be converted into stocks in domestic enterprises is permitted. Externally financed nonprofit organizations are permitted to undertake debt-for-nature swaps up to a limit of $100 million. Financial imports and investments made in the form of goods must be registered in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or credit. To register loans made in a foreign currency, the interest rate must correspond to that prevailing in the loan's original market; the amortization schedule must not be disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment; and, in the case of import-financing loans, the prices of the imported goods must correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin (these regulations are enforced by FIRCE and SECEX). Reinvestments are defined as the profits of com- panies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the aver- age exchange rate prevailing on the date the profits are reinvested. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63 (as amended), private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks and the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending in order to finance working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. Financial and nonfinancial institutions are authorized to obtain resources from abroad through the issue of com- mercial papers, notes, and bonds, including securi- ties that can be converted into stocks. Brazilian banks located abroad are allowed to issue medium- and long-term certificates of deposit, and exporters are allowed to issue medium-term debt instruments secured with fu ture export receipts. All other finan- cial loans in foreign currency are governed by the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans contracted under this law also require prior authorization from the Central Bank, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. On Octo- ber 30, 1992, the authorities announced that loans contracted under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of 30 months; no maximum term has been set. Loans are authorized only if the amount and the maturity conform to requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans out- standing to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebted- ness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1992, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 75 the Central Bank's minimum acceptable maturity was set at 30 months; however, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains com- mitted to Brazil for the minimum specified matu- rity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made on terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or to a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt-rescheduling agreements, a similar mechanism applies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected principal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1989, subject to annual quantitative limits. Transfers of proceeds from sales of property and inheritance are permitted up to the limit of $500,000 or its equivalent in other currencies, provided they are made through authorized dealers with support- ing documentation; transfers exceeding this limit require authorization from the Central Bank. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization from DECAM or the FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved exchange transactions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. The private sector and both the financial and nonfinancial public sector are allowed access to for- eign exchange for the purpose of servicing their debts, including those owed to nonresident banks, except the debt covered by the agreements con- cluded within the framework of the Paris Club and of private foreign banks. Gold Since the adoption of the Federal Constitution in 1988, gold transactions in Brazil have been deliv- ered in two separate markets: the financial and the commercial market. Over 30 percent of transactions occur in the financial market, which is regulated by the Central Bank and the Customs Authority. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to an IOF of 1 percent. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined by each federal state, which also estab- lishes different rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets (CMN Resolution 1182 of April 4, 1986). Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is con- sidered a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by SECEX and to authorization from the Central Bank. Exports of gold are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through SECEX in respect of other products, but the Central Bank is always the alter- native buyer. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The limit on authorized banks' sold posi- tion in the foreign exchange markets was reduced by relating it to the net foreign asset position of each institution. May 5. The Central Bank announced that it would intervene in the floating (tourism) foreign exchange market using the same auction procedures as those used for interventions in the commercial rate market. Imports and Import Payments October 1. The implementation of the progressive tariff-reduction schedule was brought forward, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 50 percent, and the average tariff rate, to 17 percent. October 29. The restrictions on the importation of information technology (market-reserve policy) were lifted. Payments for Invisibles September 30. Foreign exchange to pay for medi- cal treatment abroad was allowed to be purchased in the "floating exchange market." October 14. Foreign exchange to pay for expenses relating to sports events was allowed to be pur- chased in the "floating exchange market." October 21. Foreign exchange to pay for exhibits abroad was allowed to be purchased in the "float- ing exchange market." Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. The maximum period for pre-export financing that may be obtained against exchange contracts (ACCs) was reduced unofficially from one year to 180 days. A tax of 3 percent was levied on ACCs that are not supported by shipments. Capital January 1. The Foreign Capital Law (Law No. 4131) was modified, setting the maximum with- holding tax rate for remittances of profits and divi- dends abroad at 25 percent, irrespective of their relationship to the registered capital base; the basic rate may be lowered if the companies remitting abroad furnish proof that the comparable tax rates in their home countries are lower (this exception, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 BRAZIL however, would not be allowed if the parent com- pany is located in a registered tax shelter). The law also provided that the ceiling on dividend and profit remittances would be reduced to 15 percent on January 1,1993. January 9. The participation by foreigners in the privatization process was liberalized (Resolution No. 1894). The period that investments relating to privatization financed through foreign debt instru- ments are required to remain in Brazil was reduced to 6 years from 12 years. The minimum holding period of 2 years before assets acquired in the pro- cess of privatization can be sold to invest in other assets in Brazil was abolished. March 12. The Central Bank announced that, in order to be eligible for tax exemptions, the mini- mum average maturity of foreign funding obtained through issuance of securities must be 30 months (previously, it had been 23 months). April 23. The Central Bank announced (1) that it would permit companies to arrange foreign funding through the issuance of foreign debt instruments (such as Eurobonds and commercial paper) only if the minimum maturity is 30 months; and (2) that, in order to benefit from tax exemptions, the average period of amortization must be at least 60 months. April 30. Resident private sector companies and selected public sector companies were authorized to hedge against changes in international interest rates. May 18. Depository receipts were authorized to be issued abroad by Depositary Institutions with back- ing in securities held in specific custody in Brazil. June 30. Foreign investors represented by funds, investment companies, and institutional investors were authorized to operate in the options and futures markets related to securities, exchange, and interest rates. July 16. The Central Bank authorized corpora- tions established in Brazil to issue and place abroad securities that can be converted into equities. July 29. The Central Bank required that identifica- tion must be provided for transactions in excess of $10,000 in the "manual exchange market/7 September 30. Leasing contracts covering goods and real estate were authorized to be made for a minimum term of two years. To benefit from total tax exemption, the term must be at least five years. October 1. Issue and placement of securities that can be converted into stocks by companies and institutions headquartered in Brazil were allowed, subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank. October 14. Private nonfinancial Brazilian resi- dents were authorized to invest abroad up to $1 million without prior authorization. For invest- ments in excess of $1 million, Brazilian investors must provide information to the Central Bank, which will authorize the transaction within 30 days. October 29. The minimum maturity of external debt contracted under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131, other than bonds, notes, and commercial papers, was lengthened from 1 year to 30 months (Central Bank Circular Letter No. 2333). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Bulgaria is the Lev. The Bulgar- ian National Bank quotes daily the exchange rate of the lev in terms of the U.S. dollar based on develop- ments in the domestic interbank exchange market. This rate is called the central exchange rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined by their cross rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international exchange market. On December 31,1992, the exchange rate quoted by the Bulgarian National Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar was leva 24.492 per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Minis- try of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. The Bulgarian National Bank is responsible for implementing the exchange rate policy. Eleven commercial banks and one financial institution con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Bul- garia maintains bilateral agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the proce- dures set forth in those agreements.1 Transactions are generally settled through clearing accounts. Bal- ances in these accounts (annual and multiyear) are generally to be settled in goods during the six months after the agreement has been terminated; thereafter, they are settled in convertible currencies. Residents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts, which may be credited without restric- tion, and from which transfers abroad may be made with permission from the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank (pursuant to the provi- sions of Decree No. 15 of the Council of Ministers of 1991). Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. Nonresidents may main- tain accounts in foreign currencies and leva without authorization, limitation, or restrictions for pur- poses of making transactions in Bulgaria. The cred- iting and debiting of foreign currency accounts are not subject to any regulations, and transfers abroad from these accounts are free of restriction. Imports and Exports There are no import quotas, and most imports are subject only to declaration and registration at the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations for statisti- cal purposes.2 The import customs tariff system is based on the harmonized system of nomenclature, with rates ranging from 5 percent to 40 percent. Tar- iffs are calculated on the transaction values (actual invoice price paid) in foreign currency and con- verted to leva. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within one month but do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Under Government Decree No. 13 (February 8, 1991), as amended by Decree No. 73 (April 22, 1991), and Decree No. 264 (December 22, 1992), export taxes are levied on a variety of products. The range of rates is as follows: (1) 30 percent on the lev equivalent of the forex pro- ceeds from exports of wheat, animal livestock, meat and meat products, and cheese; and (2) 20 percent on the lev equivalent of proceeds from exports of 26 items, including gasoline, diesel fuel, synthetic tex- tile fibers, ferrous and nonferrous metals and their shaped products, steel tubes, zinc and lead ingots ^t the end of 1992, Bulgaria maintained bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Belarus, Brazil, Cambo- dia, China, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malta, Mozambique, N ica ragua, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, the Russian Federation, Tanzania, Tunisia, and Ukraine. 2 Licenses are required for transactions under barter and clear- ing arrangements, for exports under government credits and exports subject to quotas and vo lun ta ry export restraint agree- ments, for transactions in products made by monopolistic firms (e.g., wine and tobacco), and for special products, such as pre- cious metals. Licenses are norma l ly granted within seven work- ing days. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (spelter), electrolytic copper, soda ash, timber, all sorts of packing and wrapping material, soaps and detergents, textiles, garments and clothing, electric batteries, and medicines and pharmaceuticals. The above-mentioned items are exempt from taxes when they are exported under barter operations approved by the Government or similar arrange- ments. Special licenses are required for exports and imports of tobacco leaves and products; liquors, wines, and beer; essential oils; military hardware and related technologies; endangered flora and fauna; radioactive materials; crafts and antiques; intellectual property; jewelry; and rare and precious metals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are granted without restriction. Allowances for tour- ist travel are limited to the equivalent of up to leva 10,000 a person a year for people without for- eign currency deposits. Resident holders of forex deposits receive unlimited tourist travel allowances. Proceeds from invisibles do not have to be sur- rendered and may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Commer- cial banks may sell foreign exchange freely to resi- dent individuals or resident legal persons if proper documentation certifies that foreign exchange is needed for (1) transportation and other expenses related to the conveyance of goods and passengers carried out by nonresidents; (2) interest and amor- tization with respect to credits approved by the Bul- garian National Bank; (3) business travel in compliance with the established procedures; (4) insurance fees; (5) banking commissions; (6) education and training; (7) health care; and (8) payments authorized by local judicial bodies. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers and remittances for family maintenance are not explic- itly mentioned in Decree No. 15 (of February 8, 1991), which governs foreign exchange control, but they have been treated implicitly as transfers abroad that are not related to merchandise imports. The latter group of transfers requires prior permis- sion from the Bulgarian National Bank as stipulated by the decree; it includes (1) indirect investments; (2) official credits extended to and received from abroad; (3) investments abroad; and (4) free trans- fers in foreign currency when they are not con- nected with imports of goods and services. The exportation and importation of domestic bank notes are prohibited. Capital Licensed banks may borrow abroad without the authorization of the Bulgarian National Bank. The forex-licensed commercial banks, however, may borrow abroad only if they do not request a guaran- tee from the Government of Bulgaria and if their borrowing complies with the prudential regula- tions set up by the Bulgarian National Bank. They may also extend foreign currency and lev loans to residents and nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Bulgaria are gov- erned by the Law on the Economic Activity of For- eign Persons and Protection of Foreign Investments (State Gazette No. 8/1992). Foreign direct invest- ments must be registered with the Ministry of Finance and require authorization only if they are undertaken in sectors that are considered sensitive. Foreign direct investments are guaranteed against expropriation, except for nationalization through legal process. Foreign firms are granted the same status as domestic firms; they may, under certain conditions, benefit from preferential treatment, including reduced taxation and access to judicial appeal outside the system of state arbitration. In general, fully owned foreign firms are subject to a profit tax of 40 percent, and joint ventures are sub- ject to a profit tax of 30 percent; all other firms with foreign participation are subject to the same profit tax as domestic firms (40 percent). Repatriation of liquidated capital and after-tax profits is not restricted, and transfers of profits in domestic cur- rency do not require a special authorization. Gold The Ministry of Finance controls the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold, sil- ver, and platinum. The Bulgarian National Bank is the only institution entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold for monetary and nonmone- tary purposes. All domestic transactions for indus- trial purposes must be conducted at current prices through the Bulgarian National Bank. Commercial banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (on their own or on their customers' behalf) in precious metals, with the exception that the Bulgarian For- eign Trade Bank is licensed to deal in precious met- als. Resident individuals may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold and jew- elry products they may import is limited. Nonresi- dents are permitted to bring in and take out their jewelry but may not trade. Nonresidents must have permission from the Ministry of Finance, the Bul- garian National Bank, and the Ministry of Industry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 79 and Commerce to buy gold, silver, and platinum products. Changes During 1992 Imports and Exports July 1. A new tariff schedule was introduced. It imposed a minimum rate of 5 percent and a maxi- mum rate of 25 percent, narrowed the range of rates, and increased the average rate of protection from about 8 percent to 17 percent. The temporary import surcharge of 15 percent on most imports was abolished. July I. All export bans were eliminated, and export quotas were maintained on nine categories of goods. Export licenses were granted automatically. December 1. Export quotas were replaced by export duties. Changes During 1993 Imports and Exports March 15. A temporary ban on exports of grain was introduced; it will be in effect until September 30,1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may be arranged only by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract and are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Nonrenewable forward exchange con- tracts may be concluded for one month. For certain products, the maturity period of forward exchange cover may be renewed once for three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equato- rial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). All payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in foreign cur- lrThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a f l at commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. rency, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, its authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- torate-General of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the Operations Account Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained for external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of an Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are settled through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Certain settlements with China, Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through spe- cial accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France or the country concerned in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs or other currencies of the Operations Account Area through foreign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts BCEAO bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an autho- rized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 81 notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is prohib- ited. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; prior acquisition of an official import document is neces- sary for imports exceeding values of CFAF 250,000. Imports of the following products are subject to an import license (autorisation speciale drimportation (ASI)): paper and cardboard and their derivatives; used buses, cars, tractors, and motorcycles; wheat and cereal flour; small fishing nets not exceeding 3 centimeters; ivory; tires and inner tubes for motorcycles and mopeds originating outside the West African Economic Community (WAEC); sugar; paddy and milled rice; sheet metal; tiles; tomato paste; mats and bags made of polyethylene; printed fabric and bleached and tinted threads; Per- sian blinds, U40, Z40, and Z45 slats; concrete-rein- forcing bars; R20 and R06 batteries and alkaline batteries; bicycle and motorcycle chassis; insecti- cides for domestic use; cement; and foam rubber for mattresses. A technical import visa is required for the follow- ing products: plants and plant extracts; seeds and fruits used in perfumery or medicine, as insecti- cides, or for any similar purpose; plant extracts and juices; tobacco; pharmaceutical products; fertilizers; explosives and similar flammablematerials; mili- tary uniforms and any men's khaki or olive green clothes and military and police helmets; audio- and videotapes; and arms and ammunition. Imports of certain other products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import docu- ment requirement. The Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines may, on the basis of criteria established by the ministry, waive the prescribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import sur- charge of 6 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. Imports of the following products are prohibited: oil-carrying tank trucks, used coaches and buses, moped inner tubes from non-WAEC countries, bicycle tires and inner tubes from non-WAEC coun- tries, wheat flour from non-WAEC countries, fish- ing nets with a mesh not greater than 3 square centimeters, and ivory. All import transactions with a value of more than CFAF 500,000 that relate to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses or prior import authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the com- modities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment must be made before importation. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which, for many invisi- bles, has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Ad- ministration are empowered to make payments of up to CFAF 50,000 per transfer to foreign countries on be- half of residents without requiring justification. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 per person for each trip, or CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after their return to Burkina Faso must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 per trip. Larger allocations are granted, however, for bona fide rea- sons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take with them a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if the country of destination is not a member of the WAMU, any amount over CFAF 150,000 must be declared at customs. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or a larger amount if it has been declared upon entry, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 BURKINA FASO acquired by drawing on a foreign account in francs or an account in foreign currency, or accumulated by exchange of foreign traveler's checks. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a foreign account in francs or an account in foreign currency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization from the compe- tent services of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Mines, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Mines, exports of ivory, shelled beans, and cereals such as maize, millet, sorghum, and rice are subject to special regulations (autorisation speciale d'exportation (ASE)). Exports to Ghana are also sub- ject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract must not, in principle, be more than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destina- tion). All export transactions of more than CFAF 500,000 relating to foreign countries, including countries in the Operations Account Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and sub- mit an export attestation form. Most exports are sub- ject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital move- ments between Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls, in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable, are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign firms, institutions, and pri- vate individuals, as well as over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad. These spe- cial controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All special provi- sions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance4 and, unless the Minister specifically exempts them, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons residing in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies having their headquarters in Burkina Faso. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 83 direct investments in Burkina Faso must be de- clared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration to request post- ponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liqui- dation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign in- vestments in Burkina Faso, must be reported to the Minister of Finance. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or en- terprise. Mere participation is not considered di- rect investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe participa- tion in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to res- idents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign com- panies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents also requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus- trial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of f irm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of these loans outstanding— including the new borrowing —does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the proceeds are immediately surren- dered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authoriza- tion of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself is subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan is exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authori- 5 Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. zation by the BCEAO acting on behalf of the Min- ister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably expand activities likely to contribute to the coun- try's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-lined or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir burkinabe des metaux precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments February 15. API and AEI import licenses were merged into one single license (autorisation speciale ^importation (ASI)). July 21. The number of product categories for which an ASI is required was reduced to 15 from 20, and that for which a technical visa is required was reduced to 10 from 14. Exports and Export Proceeds February 19. All export licenses were merged into one single license (autorisation speciale dfexportation (ASE)). July 21. The number of product items for which an ASE is required was reduced to three (grains, beans, and ivory). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, the external value of which has been pegged since May 14, 1992 to a basket of currencies that reflects the pattern of Burundi's international trade. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 235.36 and FBu 237.73, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 and for 2 units of accounts (Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs) and Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area (UAPTAs)) are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc/U.S. dollar rate and the transaction value of these cur- rencies and units in terms of the U.S. dollar. Com- mercial banks are authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange on their own account and on behalf of their customers at rates within margins of 1 percent on either side of the middle rate established by the central bank. Commercial banks are allowed to bor- row foreign exchange to hedge against exchange rate risks. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to five authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through SDR accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any convertible currency. Nonresident (Foreign Currency) Accounts Nonresident accounts in convertible Burundi francs may be maintained by (1) natural persons of Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. foreign nationality (such as staff of diplomatic mis- sions) who are temporarily established in Burundi, (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with spe- cial status (such as diplomatic missions and inter- national organizations), and (3) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs or for con- version into foreign exchange. Up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior authorization of the central bank. These accounts may bear interest freely and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents whose main activities are outside Burundi may maintain accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. These accounts may be maintained by (1) natural and juridical per- sons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad, and (2) any other natural or juridical persons authorized by the central bank. These accounts may be credited freely with any convertible currency received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs of any pay- ments in Burundi; and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of for- eign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts must not be overdrawn. However, they may bear interest freely. The related bank charges and com- missions must be settled in foreign exchange; and (3) as in the case of accounts in convertible Burundi francs, up to FBu 20,000 may be withdrawn in bank notes upon presentation of travel documents (a passport and an airline ticket). Withdrawals in excess of this amount are subject to the prior autho- rization of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are fu l ly liberalized, except for a limited number of goods the importation of which is restricted mainly for security reasons. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value (f.o.b.) may be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality and price by an international 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 85 supervising and oversight organization on behalf of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available either at the time of shipment of the goods on the basis of the shipping documents or following importation of the goods. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Transportation expenses on certain routes to Burundi or abroad must be paid in Burundi francs. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70 percent of their net annual income (80 percent in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50 percent of their production). Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer 100 percent of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, office, and residential buildings is per- mitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years for com- mercial, industrial, and office buildings, and for three years for residential buildings. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel purposes is $200 a person a day or its equivalent ($250 for exporters), subject to a max- imum limit of 15 days a year. These limits may be increased for travel requiring a longer stay abroad. There is no limit on the number of trips a person may take. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are fully liberalized. Export proceeds must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at customs for surface shipment or within 30 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collection of proceeds from exports of non- traditional products are set by individual banks. All proceeds from traditional exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank. Exporters of nontradi- tional products may retain up to 30 percent of proceeds. Exports of mineral products, coffee, hides, and all exports by those not authorized by ministerial order are subject to export duties. Exporters of manufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorpo- rate raw materials on which import du ty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the central bank and traveler's checks and up to FBu 5,000 in Burundi bank notes. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling con- vertible currencies or by using a credit card. Pay- ment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the central bank, and in the case of nationals of Rwanda or Zaire who produce dec- larations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Capital Under the Investment Code introduced on January 14,1987, new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic impor- tance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other mer- chandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises accorded priority status may be granted a reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw materials for renewable peri- ods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are con- sidered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 BURUNDI their activities will not be increased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Sec- retariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authori- zation. In addition, Burundi guarantees each for- eign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide work- ing capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the central bank, is valid for one year, and may be renewed. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the amount received from abroad. The repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business is also guaranteed. Gold All natural or juridical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates communi- cated by the central bank. Gold exports are autho- rized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The peg of the Burundi franc was changed from the SDR to an undisclosed basket of currencies that reflects the pattern of Burundi's international trade. Imports and Import Payments April 1. Specific import licenses were replaced with a system of open general licenses. Payments for Invisibles November 4. Foreign workers were permitted to transfer abroad up to 70 percent of their net annual income. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian Kiel (CR). The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official and the parallel market rates. The parallel market is not legal but is tolerated by the authorities, whose policy is to maintain the official exchange rate close to the parallel market rate. Adjustments to the official exchange rate, however, are not automatic and are made at the discretion of the National Bank of Cambodia. The official exchange rate applies mainly to external transactions conducted by the Government and state-owned enterprises. On December 31, 1992, the official exchange rate was CR 2,000 per US$1. The parallel market exchange rate is determined by market forces; on December 31, 1992, that rate was CR 2,330 per US$1. The National Bank is responsible for pegging the exchange rate, quoting official daily rates, and set- ting margins within which both banks and other commercial foreign exchange dealers buy and sell foreign exchange. By law, the spread between buying and selling rates established by foreign exchange dealers is not allowed to exceed 2 percent.1 The interbank exchange rate is legally defined within a specified margin of the official rate, but in practice, transactions take place at the rate prevail- ing in the parallel market. Foreign exchange dealers are permitted to buy only bank notes and traveler's checks and are required by law to conduct transac- tions at the official rate; in practice, however, these transactions take place at the parallel rather than the official rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The exchange control regime is defined by the Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange, Pre- cious Metals, and Stones. This law vests responsi- bility for the management of foreign exchange (as well as precious metals and stones) with the Minis- try of Finance and the National Bank. The Ministry 1 Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange, Precious Met- als, and Stones, promulgated by Decree No. 71 of the Council of State (dated August 31, 1991) and Sub-Decree No. 29 of the Council of Ministers (dated November 8,1991). of Finance and the- Ministry of Planning are empowered to formulate the foreign exchange bud- get in cooperation with the National Bank, which is authorized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. State-owned enterprises must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance to engage in export/import trade or in any other businesses generating foreign exchange and are required to repatriate foreign exchange earnings. Private sector entities must also obtain licenses to engage in foreign trade activities. State-owned enterprises must receive authorization from the Ministry of Finance to obtain foreign exchange from the Foreign Trade Bank of Cambo- dia (FTBC) at the official rate. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Cambodia does not maintain operative bilateral payments agreements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with commer- cial banks. Although there are no limits on the bal- ances of these accounts, the funds may not be used to settle domestic transactions but must be con- verted into domestic currency at the official rate first. In practice, however, such transactions are fre- quently settled through foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments Trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Commerce, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. Most imports by state-owned enterprises and pri- vate traders must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Imports of certain products are subject to control or prohibited for reasons of national secu- rity, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade are not restricted. The repatriation of profits by foreign companies is regulated by the Foreign Investment Law of July 1989, which provides for the transfer of 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 CAMBODIA dividends and profits with the approval of the National Bank. Foreign companies are required to register initial capital investments in Cambodia with the National Bank in order to become eligible to transfer dividends and profits. At present, profits are repatriated on a discretionary basis. An annual travel allowance of $3,000 a person is granted at the official rate for Cambodians going abroad for all types of travel, irrespective of the length of stay. Amounts in excess of this limit may be provided with approval from the National Bank. There are no officially established limits on other invisible payments. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. The exportation of certain products, such as unfinished timber, is prohibited. All proceeds from exports by state-owned enter- prises must be repatriated and sold to or deposited with the FTBC; private sector entities must repatri- ate and hold export proceeds in accounts with com- mercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles by private sector entities are not subject to the repatriation or surrender requirement. Proceeds from invisibles earned by state-owned enterprises are subject to the same reg- ulations as those governing proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Capital Borrowing abroad is permitted only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Foreign direct investments must be registered with the National Bank and are governed by the Law on Investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other for- eign currencies are also officially posted, with quo- tations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not mem- bers of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of cen- tral and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans prop- erly obtained abroad, travel allowances and official representation expenses paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to the Operations Account countries must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Forward exchange cover requires the prior authorization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not be less than three months or exceed nine months. Settlements must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. lrThe CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses for goods other than gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry/and those for gold by the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. All settlements between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to for- eign accounts in francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by foreign cor- respondents of authorized banks. Nonresidents are allowed to maintain bank accounts in convertible francs. These accounts, held mainly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and their non- resident employees, may be credited only with (1) proceeds of spot or forward sales of foreign cur- rencies transferred from abroad by account owners; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations. These accounts may be debited only for (1) purchases of foreign currencies; (2) transfers to other nonresident convertible franc accounts; and (3) payments to res- idents in accordance with exchange regulations. Nonresidents may not maintain accounts in CFA francs abroad or accounts in foreign currency in 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CAMEROON Cameroon. Residents are not permitted to maintain accounts abroad or accounts in foreign currency in Cameroon. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and imports of tobacco from Malawi are prohibited. Some imports from countries outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are subject to quan- titative restrictions. Certain imports require techni- cal licenses that prove the goods are for professional use. Certain other imports are prohib- ited for political, ecological, health, or safety rea- sons. Surcharges apply to imports from non- UDEAC countries. All import transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if the goods are not considered in transit. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a foreign bank. Advance import deposits are permitted if underlying contracts stip- ulate them. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declara- tion and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade follow the same regime as basic trade transactions, as do transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. Res- idents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 1 million a person a year; for business travel, the correspond- ing allocation is up to the equivalent of CFAF 3 mil- lion a person a trip. Residents must surrender any foreign exchange remaining from their travels on return to Cameroon. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to up to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of repair costs and tax pay- ments. Remittances for current repair and manage- ment of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of up to 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon, depending on the number of dependents abroad, is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Camer- oon temporarily who have been insured previously, residents and nonresidents are not allowed to con- tract insurance abroad when the same services are available in Cameroon. However, payments of pre- miums for authorized contracts are not restricted. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries out- side the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 100,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration has been made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 500,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation require- ments for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within a month of the due date, and foreign currency receipts must be surren- dered within a month of collection. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring into Cameroon any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital transactions between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Outward capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted. Inward capital transfers are free of restrictions, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Provided that they have met ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 91 their tax obligations, emigrants to countries outside the Operations Account Area may transfer abroad their full savings. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, con- trols on capital movements do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign secu- rities and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized intermediary and are classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they (1) take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits, or (2) do not exceed 20 percent of the fair market value of the company being purchased. The full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Camer- oon requires only a report to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Cameroonian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cameroon. authorization, however, and subject only to a report after the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroon- ian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by regis- tered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. The Investment Code of November 1990 aims to promote the development of natural resources, job creation, production, and exportation (especially of manufactures), and the transfer of appropriate tech- nology. Under the code, generalized fiscal benefits are provided to encourage exports and the develop- ment of natural resources, and further benefits are provided to enterprises qualifying for inclusion in one of the five regimes described below. The generalized fiscal benefits include an exemp- tion from export duties and taxes on insurance and transportation for exports and a deduction of 5 percent of the value of exports from the exporter's ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 CAMEROON taxable income. In addition, firms are exempted under certain conditions from all duties and pur- chase taxes on raw materials or intermediate inputs produced in Cameroon or the UDEAC region. The new code grants fiscal benefits to domestic and for- eign firms undertaking new projects in the raw material processing, mining, forestry, agriculture, fishing, food, construction, equipment mainte- nance, industrial research, and tourism sectors. These benefits are provided as follows: (1) The basic regime applies to firms whose investment is labor- intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 10 million investment), export-oriented firms, and firms that use domestic natural resources. During a three-year installation phase, firms under this regime are enti- tled to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, including their fiscal and customsduties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to cer- tain fiscal exemptions. During a five-year exploita- tion phase, certain tax exemptions are maintained. (2) The small and medium-size enterprise regime applies to firms that are labor-intensive (defined as one job per CFAF 5 million investment), whose investment is of modest size (less than CFAF 1.5 billion), and whose level of Cameroonian participation is at least 35 percent of capital. The benefits under this regime are the same as those under the basic regime, except that during the exploitation phase of seven years, firms may deduct from taxable income 25 percent of salaries paid to Cameroonian nationals. (3) The strategic regime applies to enterprises declared strategic by the Cameroonian authorities and fulfilling certain other conditions. The installation phase is 5 years and receives the same benefits as those under the basic regime. The exploitation phase is 12 years and pro- vides the same benefits as those available under the small and medium-size enterprise regime. (4) The free trade zone regime is available to enterprises devoted exclusively to exporting; terms are fixed by individual agreements. (5) Firms that expand by more than 20 percent or that satisfy certain other conditions are eligible for benefits under the rein- vestment regime. For three years, firms are subject to a reduced tax rate of 15 percent, which includes their fiscal and customs duties, internal turnover tax, and all other import taxes relating to imported inputs; in addition, these firms are entitled to cer- tain fiscal exemptions. Law No. 90/19 of August 10, 1990 provides that Cameroonian interests should hold at least one- third of the share capital of each banking institu- tion. This law also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Foreign managers must be approved by the mone- tary authorities and reside in Cameroon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Mines, Water, and Energy and the Minister of Finance, although such authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; how- ever, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing exchange rate (midpoint) for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992 was Can$1.2711 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly deter- mined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25,1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, where required, is handled mostly by the Department of External Affa irs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Canada notified the Fund on July 23,1992 that in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required only for drugs, a few agricultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. Import per- mits are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only Permits are rarely issued for some agricultural items, such as butter and milk, while other agricultural items may be subject to a quota. Commercial imports of cer- tain products, primarily margarine and motor vehi- cles, from any source are tightly controlled or prohibited. Pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States is being phased out over a five-year period that began in 1989. Imports of clothing and certain textile prod- ucts are subject to special measures that protect domestic industries, usually in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understand- ing) concluded under the Multifiber Arrangement negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. The principal legal instrument governing export controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the Export Con- trol List and Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement intergovernmental arrangements, upgrade resources, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls Munitions List, the Industrial List of Stra- tegic Goods, and the Atomic Energy List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except the United States, and items on the Atomic Energy List require permits regardless of destination. The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled unless specifically exempted by a general permit. At present, the following countries are on the Area Control List: the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Croatia, Bosnia-Herze- govina, Haiti, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and South Africa. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Development Cor- poration, including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for or exchange receipts from invisibles. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 CANADA Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the financial, broadcasting, telecom- munication, transportation, fisheries, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provisions of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review, and direct acquisitions of busi- nesses with assets exceeding Can$5 million and indirect acquisitions involving assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sec- tors may be reviewed. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test proving that they will yield a net benefit to Canada. There are no controls on outward direct investment or on inward or outward portfolio investment. The domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Can- ada (excluding those controlled by U.S. residents) must not exceed an amount fixed by a ministerial order in respect of the bank. The total domestic assets of all such foreign-owned banks must not exceed 12 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Exter- nal Affairs, under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. In 1982, Can$5 and Can$10 coins containing Vio and V4 of an ounce of gold, respec- tively, were issued; in 1986, a coin containing l/2 an ounce of gold with a face value of Can$50 was issued. 1 Under the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement, investment review thresholds for U.S. investors are being raised to Can$150 million by the end of 1992 for direct acquisitions and are to be phased out altogether for indirect acquisitions, while restrictions with respect to market shares and asset growth of U.S. bank subsidiaries have been liberalized. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 23. The Canadian International Trade Tri- bunal (CITT) found that the importation of carbon steel welded pipe from Brazil was likely to cause injury to domestic production of similar products. February 7. The CITT found that the importation of aluminum Venetian blind material (aluminum coil stock) from Sweden was likely to cause injury to domestic production of similar products. March 6. The CITT terminated the countervailing duties of US$0.40 per bushel on imports of corn from the United States. March 13. The CITT found that the importation of flat wooden toothpicks from the United States was likely to cause injury to domestic production of similar products. April 10. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) scheme was extended to Armenia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, and Ukraine. General Preferential Tariff (GPT) was granted to Armenia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and the Russian Federation. (Subsequently, the GPT was also granted to the remaining independent states of the former U.S.S.R. effective November 26, 1992.) Tariffs on imports of most manufactured goods from these countries, except textile products, apparel, footwear and steel, would in general be applied at two-thirds of the most-favored-nation rates. April 21. The CITT rendered a final ruling that carpets imported from the United States during 1988-91 at less than fair value had injured the Cana- dian industry The dumping margin was estimated at 12 percent. June 15. Restrictions were imposed on imports of certain types of clothing from Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Oman, Qatar, and Swaziland for the period from June 15 to December 31,1992. June 24. The duty on imports of fresh lettuce from the United States into western Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agree- ment was temporarily increased from 9 percent to 15 percent. July 3. The duty on imports of fresh cabbage from the United States into Quebec, Ontario, and west- ern Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was temporarily increased from 1.6 cents per kilogram to 15 percent. July 3. The duty on imports of fresh lettuce from the United States into Quebec, Ontario under Arti- cle 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 95 increased to from 9 percent was temporarily 15 percent. July 21. The duty on imports of fresh peaches from the United States into western Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agree- ment was temporarily increased from 7.5 percent to 12.5 percent. July 24. A 50 percent duty was imposed on imports of beer from the United States in retaliation against the 50 percent du ty the United States had applied on imports of Canadian beer. July 30. The temporary increase on imports from the United States of fresh cabbage into Ontario and Quebec under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was terminated. August 5. The duty on imports of fresh peaches from the United States into Ontario and Quebec under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was temporarily increased to 12.5 percent from 7.5 percent. August 21. The temporary increase in duty on imports of fresh lettuce from the United States into central and western Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was terminated. August 27. The temporary increase in duty on imports of fresh cabbage from the United States into western Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.- Canada Free Trade Agreement was terminated. September 4. The temporary increase in du ty on imports of fresh peaches from the United States into western Canada under Article 702 of the U.S.-Can- ada Free Trade Agreement was terminated. September 14. The temporary increase in duty on imports of fresh peaches from the United States under Article 702 of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was terminated. Exports and Export Proceeds November 13. The CITT rescinded its finding on imports of stainless steel buttweld fittings from Japan, and the antidumping duties were terminated. November 30. The CITT found that the importa- tion of iceberg lettuce from the United States was likely to cause injury to domestic producers of simi- lar products. The margin of dumping was calcu- lated at 31 percent. December 2. It was announced that, beginning January 1, 1993, tariffs on textile fibers, yams, and fabrics would be reduced, at a rate of 1.5 percentage points a year to maximum rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 16 percent, respectively. December 11. The CITT found that the importa- tion of bicycles from China and Taiwan Province of China was likely to cause injury to domestic pro- ducers of similar products. The margins of dump- ing were calculated at 34 percent and 13 percent, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 75.03 and C.V. Esc 75.64, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Department of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRE), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). Certain catego- ries of imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2.5 million. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola and Sao Tome and Principe, which are cur- rently inoperative. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished exclu- sively with foreign exchange. Foreign enterprises may maintain accounts in foreign currency. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign exchange deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments Imports with a value of less than C.V. Esc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Imports of goods exceeding C.V. Esc 100 million and not involv- ing payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to the preregistration require- ment. The importation of maize, rice, sugar, cooking oil, cement, and fuel oil is a government monopoly. Licenses, which are issued by the General Director- ate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Trans- portation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the central bank, are generally valid for 90 days, and are renewable. The provision of for- eign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are, in general, granted liberally for imports of medi- cines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and to make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, enti- tled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign cur- rency that varies according to the country of desti- 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 97 nation and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies according to medical needs. Applications for these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification before the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency but may re-export only up to the amount of currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports exceeding C.V Esc 2,500 are subject to licensing and to approval from the central bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months of the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The importation of domestic cur- rency is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The exportation of resident-owned capital is not nor- mally permitted. Capital in certain foreign invest- ments is allowed to be repatriated in equal installments within a period of less than two years. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold in either coins or bars require prior licensing by the mone- tary authorities. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Under the first phase of trade liberal- ization, quantitative restrictions on "nonliberal- ized" imports (e.g., coffee, margarine, a number of consumer goods, and construction materials) were removed. The product items affected accounted for approximately 33 percent of the average value of imports of goods over the past two to three years. July 1. Under the second phase of trade liberaliza- tion, quantitative restrictions on imports of cement were eliminated. As a result, about 60 percent of imports have been liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 per F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its over- seas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) of the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC,2 to authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are for- eign accounts in francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may be credited freely to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are not subject to licensing requirements or quotas. Imports of fire- arms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Import declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The lrThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is also legal tender in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. zThe au thor i ty delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 99 import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. There are no limits on foreign exchange alloca- tions for tourist and business travel, and residents may obtain foreign bank notes and traveler's checks in foreign currencies or make payments through commercial banks without restriction. Res- idents traveling as tourists may take with them a maximum of CFAF 50,000 a person a year in domestic bank notes. For business travel, the maxi- mum limit on domestic bank notes is CFAF 10,000 a person a day. Foreigners working in the Central Afr ican Republic are permitted to transfer their entire net salary abroad upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared on entry and may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes into for- eign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless spe- cial authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. If payment is received in foreign currency, it must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enter- prises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a gov- ernment guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those con- trols over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital inrease resulting from the rein- vestment of undistributed profits. The full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liq- uidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a partici- pation that had previously been approved as consti- tuting a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in the Central African Repub- lic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub- lic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and Decision No. 18/65 of December 14,1965 of the Central African Customs and Economic Union, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the importation of specified equipment. In addi- tion, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C), in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing either in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be sub- mitted to the Minister of Industry, who is Chairman of the Investment Commission that considers the application. If the Commission gives a positive decision, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree from the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Cus- toms Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 101 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose qf gold in any form in the Central Afr ican Repub- lic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commis- sion of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad by the banks for their own account, except those made for the account of the Treasury, for stu- dents' bursaries, and to the member countries of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and made only through authorized banks, using bank checks. Payments to all other countries are subject to exchange control. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export autho- rizations for gold. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance lrThe CFA f ranc in circulation in Chad is issued by the Bank of Central Afr ican States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Camer- oon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instructions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area must be made through autho- rized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to debt- service payments on public debt. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to foreign accounts in francs maintained by the for- eign correspondent of an authorized bank, pro- vided that the notes are repatriated to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and the original member states of the European Community (EC) (other than France) may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the Operations Account Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area and a special quota for imports 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 103 of cotton textiles from countries judged to have abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the Operations Account Area, and other countries. Specified goods from certain neigh- boring countries not belonging to the Operations Account Area, up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year, may be imported through compensation transactions by an importer. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of ciga- rettes has been suspended until fur ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of bona fide income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. Insurance on all imports to Chad with values exceeding CFA 500,000 on f.o.b. terms must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year. This allocation increases by the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pil- grimages to Mecca, an additional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. Busi- ness travelers to foreign countries receive a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for children under 10 is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount declared on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank accounts. If nonresidents make no declaration,- they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of Cotontchad. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of pay- ment. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and coins in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 must exchange them for CFA francs within eight days of returning. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 CHAD receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended, are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; over inward and outward direct investment; and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of for- eign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the fu ll or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise; the full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Chadian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities, when issuing, advertising, or offering them for sale in Chad has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been 2 Including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Chad. 3 Including those made by companies in Chad directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those m ade by branches or sub- sidiaries of foreign companies in Chad. obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of the loan outstand- ing does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7 percent, and the maturity is two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, residing in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount of these loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 30 days of the operation. Commer- cial banks must maintain a specified minimum amount of their assets in Chad. Under the Investment Code published on December 9, 1987, any domestic or foreign enter- prise established in Chad is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports and exemption from direct taxes on speci- fied income. The code provides for four categories of enterprises that may be eligible to receive various forms of preferential treatment (including certain tax and other privileges). Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance, who, af ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. With the recommendation of this commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 105 and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold without specific authorization. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization from both the Ministry of Finance and the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as a visa from the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control March 1. The member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) agreed on a regional trade liberalization program consisting of the following: (1) a common external tariff with rates of 5 percent on basic essential prod- ucts, 15 percent on raw materials and capital goods, 35 percent on intermediate goods, and 50 percent on consumer goods; (2) a progressively reduced rate on consumer goods, to 35 percent over a period of five years; (3) an excise tax that may be levied on imports of some consumer goods; (4) a new appli- cation of the turnover tax at the same rate on imports and domestic activities; (5) the repeal of the complementary tax; and (6) the phasing out of the regime of "tax unique" in favor of preferential tar- iffs for intrazone trade. The program would go into effect in July 1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Its external value is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the U.S. dollar (50 percent), the deut- sche mark (30 percent), and the Japanese yen (20 percent); the weight of each currency in the bas- ket is based on its relative importance in Chile's international transactions. The external value of the basket is adjusted daily on the basis of the exchange rate relationships between the currencies included in the basket and the differential between the domestic and the foreign rates of inflation. The Central Bank conducts foreign exchange transac- tions with the official exchange market entities within margins of 10 percent around the official rate. On December 31, 1992, the official exchange rate was Ch$ 422.92 per US$1. The official foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks, exchange houses, and other entities licensed by the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of goods and services, payments for imports of goods and ser- vices, debt-service payments, remittances of divi- dends and profits, and authorized capital transactions, including loan receipts, must be trans- acted through this market. In addition, there is an informal exchange market through which all trans- actions not required to be channeled through the official foreign exchange market are allowed to take place. In both markets, economic agents are free to negotiate exchange rates. The banks are authorized to sell their excess for- eign exchange holdings to other banks. Foreign exchange may be bought for the repayment of capi- tal or interest abroad due within 90 days if these debts are properly registered at the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides forward cover against exchange rate risk in the form of currency swaps. The maturity periods of forward transactions range from 5 days to 720 days. Commissions on exchange transactions are subject to an 18 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso against other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank provides an exchange subsidy on the following service payments on some debts contracted before August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 billion): (1) payments to Chilean banks or financial compa- nies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) payments abroad on debt obligations registered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes indexed to inflation with a mini- mum maturity of six years and an interest rate of 3 percent. On December 31, 1992, the difference between the official rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$ 62.3 per US$1. As of the end of 1992, only those debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985 have had access to this subsidized rate. The stock of debt eligible in princi- ple for the preferential exchange rate is estimated at US$67 million. However, the actual amount for which this exchange rate is being applied is expected to be negligible owing in part to the bankruptcy of many of the affected debtors, and the subsidy opera- tions are expected to stop soon. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for implement- ing exchange control policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for supervising copper exports and all imports of the copper industry in accordance with general rules enacted by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of controls, with the excep- tion of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the Central Bank, which must be obtained and pro- cessed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions, through the official foreign exchange market, is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 107 Importers meeting the documentary require- ments are granted access to the official foreign exchange market regardless of the terms of the obli- gation involved, provided that the supplier's inter- est continues to accrue until the date on which the foreign currency is sold. Tariffs are bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) at 35 percent. At present, imports are subject to a uniform tariff rate of 11 percent. A few items are exempt from the gen- eral tariff regime, including items on which tariffs have been negotiated with LAIA countries. Imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a spe- cial regime involving price margins within which the after-duty price must remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, to imports of certain products that are subsi- dized in the country of origin or dumped in Chile. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances are granted for certain transactions; others must be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank. Authorization is provided upon presen- tation of the appropriate documents. The limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is US$3,000 a trip for travel to Latin American and Caribbean countries and US$5,000 a trip to other countries. Higher amounts for travel other than for purposes of tourism may be authorized by the Central Bank, upon presentation of adequate justification. Travel- ers may also purchase additional foreign currency in the informal exchange market. Residents may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange up to US$3,000 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines and books, reg- istrations for seminars, social security payments, medical treatment payments, or remittances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad; purchases of over US$300 a month require prior approval from the Central Bank. For all these trans- actions, the appropriate documents must be pre- sented. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers must be channeled through the informal exchange market. Remittances of profits and dividends earned from foreign direct investments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special provisions for exports of domestic bank notes. Insurance activities within the country are lim- ited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All products may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$2,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to inform the Central Bank. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all spot foreign exchange proceeds from exporters. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 10 percent of export proceeds in special foreign exchange accounts, with a cumulative limit of US$5 million on deposits to be made during a 12-month period. Bal- ances in these accounts may be used to cover travel expenses and consultants' fees, bank costs and/or commissions, and other expenses involved in export transactions. Windfall receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be depos- ited in a special foreign currency account at the Cen- tral Bank, and withdrawals from this account are permitted only under certain circumstances. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 150 days of ship- ment and surrendered within 11 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 240 days of shipment if they are held as foreign exchange deposits with domestic banks. Repatria- tion periods may be extended for certain products. Exporters of certain products (approximately 6 percent of the country's annual exports) have the option of taking a tax reimbursement (within 120 days of surrendering the proceeds) in lieu of benefits under the existing import duty drawback scheme; alternatively, exporters of these products may avail themselves of the provisions of Law No. 19.024, under which they may obtain refunds of the duties paid on imported inputs. Eligible products were defined initially as those whose average annual export values in 1990 were equal to or less than US$5 million. The list of eligible prod- ucts is reviewed annually in the light of their export value during the previous year. Annual export val- ues are also subject to adjustment each year. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. The same rule applies to royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. No similar rules govern the proceeds from family remittances or the surplus foreign exchange from travel allocations. There are no special provisions for the importa- tion of domestic bank notes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 Capital CHILE All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of exist- ing credits by commercial banks requires prior regis- tration at, or approval from, the Central Bank; exceptions are lines of credit of up to one-year matu- rity with foreign correspondents and short-term loans for domestic relending. Short-term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's cap- ital and reserves. However, the Central Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings that do not require its approval. All foreign borrowings, except for credits that are provided directly to Chilean exporters by foreign importers, are subject to a reserve requirement of 20 percent; this requirement may be satisfied by depositing the required balance in the Central Bank without interest or by entering into a special repurchase agreement with the Central Bank that effectively imposes a cost equivalent to the interest forgone. The length of the period during which the reserve requirement must be held in the Central Bank varies inversely with the maturity of the credit. Credits granted by foreign commercial banks to Chilean commercial banks as part of restructuring packages are exempt from the reserve requirement. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Among its provisions, Title I, Chapter XIV of the Compendium of Rules on International Exchange stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks. There is no minimum term on the maturity of for- eign borrowing. Repatriation is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule estab- lished at the time of registration. Accelerated pay- ments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. Since June 1990, under Chap- ter XXVI of Title I, individuals and legal entities, domiciled and resident abroad, and meeting certain conditions, have been permitted to remit abroad proceeds from the sale of stocks of registered corpo- rations domiciled in Chile that were purchased with funds abroad through the official exchange market. The remittance of dividends and profits accruing from such stocks is also allowed through the official exchange market. (2) Chapter XIV of Title I of the Compendium of Rules authorizes the Central Bank to make exemp- tions to the general rules concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. A-rated Chilean enter- prises and banks were authorized under Chapter XIV Regulations on May 13, 1992 to issue bonds in foreign markets. These bonds must be a minimum of $50 million and have a minimum term of four years (weighted average). (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18,1977), the For- eign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a con- tract that stipulates that capital transfers to Chile will not normally exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Sec- retary of the Committee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remit- tances, but specific agreements in this regard may be included in the above-mentioned investment con- tract. Since January 1992, capital may be repatriated after one year (instead of three) unless specified oth- erwise in the investment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed annual corporate income tax at the rate of 49.5 percent over a period of ten years or may subject themselves to a tax system sim- ilar to that which is applied to domestic corpora- tions. (According to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effective tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms autho- rized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile before the promulgation of Decree- Law No. 600 and that is not subject to that law con- tinues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under presidential decree; rights and responsibilities under such a decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase abroad and repatriation of selected Chilean foreign debt instruments at a dis- count. Eligible instruments are defined as external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year when the debtor is either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Development Corporation, a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institution. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by for- eign residents for direct investment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval from the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the intermediation of a financial institution; special regulations apply to the repatriation of such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 109 capital as well as to dividend payments. Advance remittances of profits earned on foreign investments undertaken under Chapter XIX may be authorized, provided that applications have been submitted by April 30, 1993. Pension funds are allowed to invest abroad up to 3 percent of the total value of the pen- sion fund. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remittance rights) of debt purchased abroad by residents and nonresidents at a discount with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guaranteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Under Chapter XIX foreign investors may sell their investments to domestic investors after paying a fee to the Central Bank. (5) Chapter XXVII of Title I of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in August 1990, stipulates that foreign capital investment funds may have access to the official exchange market for repatriation abroad of imported capital, profits earned on such capital, and payments of expenses involved in foreign investment activities under certain conditions. Foreign currency deposits in banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percent; reserves against external credits entering under Chapter XIV must be retained for one year. Banks may sell for- eign exchange using their term deposits in foreign exchange. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely undertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 22. The reference rate of the Chilean peso was revalued by 5 percent and the margin was wid- ened to 10 percent from 5 percent. March 17. The Central Bank was authorized to intervene in the foreign exchange market and oper- ate within the established 10 percent margin. July 6. The external value of the Chilean peso was pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the U.S. dollar (50 percent), the deutsche mark (30 percent), and the Japanese yen (20 percent). Payments for Imports August 27. The limit on import payments above which the prior approval of the Central Bank would be required was raised to US$100,000. Payments for Invisibles March 17. The limit on foreign exchange commer- cial banks are allowed to sell for tourist travel to Latin American countries was increased to US$3,000 from US$1,000 a person and to US$5,000 from US$3,000 for travel to other countries. The monthly limit on foreign exchange purchases from commercial banks for purposes of study abroad, subscriptions to magazines and books, registrations for seminars, social security payments, medical treatment, or remittances of rents earned by real estate owners living abroad was increased to US$3,000 from US$200. May 29. Chapter XIX of the Chilean Compen- dium of Rules on International Exchange was amended to allow applications for advance remit- tances of profits earned on foreign investments made under this chapter to be submitted until April 30,1993. Exports and Export Proceeds March 17. The rate of foreign exchange exporters are allowed to retain in special foreign exchange deposit accounts was increased to 10 percent from 5 percent, and the cumulative limit on deposits to be made in a special foreign exchange account during a 12-month period was increased to US$5 million from US$500,000. Capital May 13. A-rated Chilean enterprises and banks were authorized to issue bonds in foreign markets. May 29. The following measures were intro- duced: Pension funds were authorized for the first time to invest abroad up to 1.5 percent of the total value of the pension fund. The reserve requirement on foreign currency deposits at commercial banks was increased to 30 percent from 20 percent. The period of application of the reserve requirement on external credits entering under Chapter XIV was increased to 1 year from 90 days, but the reserve requirement ratio for these capital inflows was left unchanged at 20 percent until August 18 (see below). Commercial banks were authorized to sell ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 CHILE foreign exchange, using their term deposits in for- eign exchange. July 14. Exchange arbitrage operations under- taken abroad by banks were liberalized. Commer- cial banks were authorized to increase their foreign exchange exposure and sell their excess holdings to other banks instead of only to the Central Bank. Foreign exchange can be bought for purposes of amortization of capital and payments of interest on debt duly registered at the Central Bank within 90 days of the due date. August 18. The reserve requirement on external credits entering under Chapter XIV was increased to 30 percent from 20 percent. October 1. The limit on investment that pension funds are allowed to undertake abroad was increased to 3 percent of the total value of the pen- sion fund from 1.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of December 32 ,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi, and its unit is the Yuan. The Chinese authorities adjust periodically the official exchange rate for the renminbi on the basis of long-run devel- opments in the country's balance of payments, the costs and exchange rates of China's major competi- tors, and daily fluctuations in the exchange rates of major currencies. The exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 20 other currencies are published daily by the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC).1 On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 5.7374 and Y 5.7662, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important to China's international trans- actions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 0.5-1 percent. Retention quotas —foreign exchange retained by Chinese enterprises and foreign exchange earned by foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs, or wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign companies and joint ventures) —are bought and sold in foreign exchange ad jus tment centers. Transactions take place at rates agreed on between buyers and sellers under the SAEC's supervision.2 All domestic economic entities allowed to hold retention quotas are permitted to trade in the adjustment centers; currently, about one hundred such centers have been established. Individual res- idents may also buy and sell foreign exchange through authorized banks at rates established in the centers in conformity with the exchange con- trol regulations. Each center is organized to match, buy, and sell orders or use the competitive offering rate system under local SAEC authority; the cen- ters are not integrated into a national clearing- house. The premium on retention quotas was about 8 percent at the end of 1991 and 30 percent at the end of 1992. At the end of 1992, the average Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, I ta l ian lire, Japa- nese yen, Macao patacas, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 In addition, foreign-funded enterprises may buy and sell for- eign exchange in the centers, although such trading is limited primarily to the centers established in the special economic zones and Shanghai and the Na t ional Center in Beijing. rate in the foreign exchange adjustment centers was Y 7.50 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange comprise sales of for- eign exchange by FFEs and of foreign exchange retention quotas by Chinese enterprises (af ter the foreign exchange has been surrendered to the state).3 Purchases of foreign exchange are effected by FFEs, which, according to the terms of their con- tracts as approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC), can be used for designated purposes, including their own oper- ating needs, debt repayment, and remittances. Domestic enterprises, which are approved by MOFTEC to import goods under the trade plan, can purchase foreign exchange from state reserves at the prevailing official rate. For imports not covered by the plan that require an import license from MOFTEC, foreign exchange may be purchased through the foreign exchange adjustment centers without fu r ther restriction by the SAEC. For other imports, SAEC authorization depends on confor- mity with the priority uses of foreign exchange (consistent with the purposes of the enterprise) as set out in the state industrial policy. Requests for foreign exchange to finance imports of luxury goods or goods judged to be speculative in nature are not permitted. The SAEC must approve the use of foreign exchange purchased in the adjustment centers; in April 1992, guidelines were issued speci- fying the priority uses of foreign exchange in for- eign exchange adjustment centers for goods not covered by import licenses. Imports of inputs for the agricultural sector and central and local con- struction projects, and advanced equipment and technology, grain, and goods that meet daily needs are given priority. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises cen- tral bank functions and control over foreign exchange; the SAEC, as a government institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing exchange regulations and for con- trolling all foreign exchange transactions in accor- dance with state policy. There are a number of 3 In 1992 Chinese enterprises in Shanghai and some other cities were permitted to retain foreign exchange on an experimental basis. Ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA SAEC sub-bureaus in the provinces, main munici- palities, autonomous regions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is China's special- ized foreign exchange bank. Other banks and finan- cial institutions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transactions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, more than two hundred institutions are authorized to handle for- eign exchange transactions. The China Interna- tional Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) and other local financial institutions are authorized to conduct transactions connected with foreign investments in China. Individuals may hold foreign exchange but generally may not deal in it or con- duct arbitrage operations. Financial institutions may hold foreign exchange. Special exchange con- trol measures are applied to the special economic zones, designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions at the official exchange rate are generally conducted in accor- dance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has responsibility for foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recom- mended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total external bor- rowing, MOFTEC prepares estimates for those sec- tions of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade, foreign loans, and China's external assistance program; the Ministry of Finance pre- pares the foreign exchange budgets of other gov- ernment departments. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transactions, receipts from Chinese enter- prises overseas, and individual receipts. The State Planning Commission (SPC) coordinates and bal- ances the overall foreign exchange plan and sub- mits it to the State Council for approval. Once approved, the plan is sent back to the various local- ities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is responsible for supervising the implementation of the foreign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan includes transactions with countries with which China maintains bilat- eral payments agreements (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, below). The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and, at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and the SPC review the imple- mentation of the plan and determine whether cor- rections are necessary. That section of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. The actual implementation of the plan is delegated to the local level, where enter- prises are assigned foreign exchange targets that determine the firms' access to the foreign exchange adjustment centers. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade policies, may necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency As of the end of 1992, operative bilateral pay- ments agreements were maintained with Ban- gladesh,4 Cuba, and Mongolia. Under these agreements, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are settled in additional deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for some transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and all transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilat- eral payments agreements are made in the curren- cies of these countries and in accordance with the procedures set for th in those agreements. In other cases where there are no specific regulations, the currencies used in transactions are determined by the terms of the respective contracts. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents5 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. FFEs, including joint ventures, may also open foreign exchange current accounts and use them to make payments abroad and for certain authorized trans- actions in China (i.e., between holders of such accounts). On a case-by-case basis, the SAEC may authorize Chinese enterprises to open foreign exchange accounts. Branches of foreign banks in the special economic zones may grant loans in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from FFEs. Individuals may open resident foreign currency savings accounts at the BOC and other authorized banks; withdraw foreign currency from, or deposit it to, such accounts without restriction; and sell the proceeds in a foreign exchange adjustment center. Imports and Exports Primary responsibility for formulating foreign trade policies and ensuring the implementation of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFTEC, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of 4 The bilateral payments agreement with Bangladesh was ter- minated on January 1,1993. 5 Nonresidents include Chinese working overseas and resi- dents of foreign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Diplomatic representatives are also included. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 113 exports.6 MOFTEC does not engage in direct for- eign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corpo- rations (FTCs) and other entities licensed by MOFTEC to conduct foreign trade. At the end of 1992, about four thousand FTCs were in operation. In addition, some sixty thousand FFEs are permit- ted to conduct international trade directly. All enterprises other than registered foreign trade corporations need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with MOFTEC authori- zation, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. All foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated, and, except those of FFEs, they must be surrendered to the state through the BOC or another specialized bank (unless an exception is granted by the SAEC) and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in compensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas7 in accounts at the SAEC or its sub-bureaus. For gen- eral products, enterprises surrender all foreign exchange earnings to the state at the official rate. The state distributes 80 percent of surrendered for- eign exchange to relevant organizations. The sup- plying enterprise keeps retention quotas equivalent to 10 percent of the foreign exchange earnings; the equivalent of 10 percent accrues to local govern- ments; and the foreign trade corporation retains the remaining 60 percent. For mechanical and electrical products, exchange quotas are shared by the sup- plying enterprise (10 percent) and the foreign trade corporation (90 percent). The state may, however, purchase 20 percent of the retention quotas from foreign trade corporations and 10 percent from the supplying enterprise at the rate prevailing in the foreign exchange adjustment centers. Foreign- funded enterprises operating in special economic zones and their joint ventures may retain 100 percent of their export earnings in foreign cur- rency accounts in resident banks; however, their foreign exchange position must remain in balance. Retained foreign exchange and quotas can be sold at the centers for renminbi or used to purchase foreign exchange to finance imports. The BOC and 6MOFTEC itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its au thor i ty to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts the Commissions on Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. 7A retention quota constitutes a right to purchase foreign exchange in the fu tu re for renminbi at the prevailing official exchange rate. other specialized banks provide foreign exchange for imports against retention quotas on the basis of a general MOFTEC authorization; import licenses, when required, are examined by the SAEC. Resi- dents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports comprise those included in the annual import plan and those outside the foreign trade plan drawn up by MOFTEC in conjunction with the SPC. MOFTEC sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipali- ties, and autonomous regions; the bureaus in turn meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for exporta- tion. The plans prepared at the local level are coor- dinated and balanced by MOFTEC and the SPC at national foreign trade planning conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan, which gives priority to goods that cannot be produced domesti- cally in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the state, especially for key projects. On October 10, 1992, an import substitu- tion list consisting of 1,751 domestically produced items was eliminated. The SAEC had allowed access to the foreign exchange adjustment centers for the importation of these items on the basis of authorization by the Ministry of Material Supplies. In the case of goods not produced in adequate quantities but for which a strong demand exists in the foreign market, a portion of production is set aside for export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories —restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.8 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.9 Import licensing serves to limit imports of restricted goods included in the annual plan. Imports of seven items on the restricted list (televi- sion sets, household refrigerators, household wash- ing machines, radiocassette recorders, room air conditioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are also restricted through the licensing system; imports of these items must be approved by the SPC. Currently, approval is not granted. 8At the end of 1991, 53 product items were on the restricted list. 9 In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis, and the items covered by the import plan also change. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Apa rt from imports restricted through the licens- ing system, a few types of imports, such as all sec- ondhand garments, are explicitly banned. Imports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, as are exports of valuable cul- tural relics, rare books, animals, seeds, plants, pre- cious metals, and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the importation and exportation of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receiv- ers and transmitters, Chinese currency, manu- scripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese politi- cal, economic, cultural, and moral interests are pro- hibited. All imports and exports require prior inspection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of specified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Reg- ulations on Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tar iff rates for imports fall into two categories: general and preferential. Gen- eral rates apply to imports originating in the coun- tries or regions with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with recip- rocal favorable tariff clauses; preferential rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded such treaties and agree- ments. The duties are calculated on the basis of the transaction value of imported goods. Imports into Tibet are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the State Council. The tariff applies to goods imported for use in Tibet on a nondiscriminatory basis and irre- spective of their origin. It does not apply to imports into Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the lug- gage carried by travelers, which are subject to the regular Chinese ta r i f f. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated industrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applies to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for processing are exempt from both customs duties and other taxes. Most imports and exports by joint ventures benefit from preferential tariffs. Before 1991, special economic zones were set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, Zhuhai, and Hainan. A special development area was estab- lished in Pudong (Shanghai), and economic and technological development areas were established in 14 designated coastal cities. In 1992, approval was granted for the establishment of a large num- ber of similar zones in selected inland cities and border regions, which have recently been declared open to foreign trade and investment. Foreigners, Chinese working overseas, and Chinese from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan Province of China are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas, either through wholly owned ven- tures or joint ventures with Chinese investors. Equipment and machinery or parts and compo- nents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties and the con- solidated industrial and commercial tax. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. At the end of 1992,143 products were subject to export-licens- ing requirements. Exports of some products are prohibited. In December 1988, the number of items whose exportation is banned was raised from 4 to 10. In addition, exports of 58 products are subject to export duties. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earn- ings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks, except for FFEs and some foreign trade sectors designated as experimental areas for trade reforms. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from Hong Kong and Macao to Chi- nese residents may be retained and used to open a savings account at an authorized bank or sold for renminbi at the rate prevailing in the foreign exchange centers. Similarly, foreign exchange owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before they become residents may be retained. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents working abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao; or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad. Individuals may retain part of such earn- ings according to prevailing regulations. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from Hong Kong and Macao, may remit their salaries and other income earned in China af ter payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and 1 Inc lud ing those employed by enterprises that have been established w i th capital provided by Chinese residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 115 approval by the relevant local authorities. After-tax profits of joint ventures may be remitted in accor- dance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Chinese residents wishing to spend money on travel abroad or remit money abroad must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. All transac- tions, except for those of an official nature, are car- ried out through the foreign exchange centers. Such factors as the individual's usual income need not be examined. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting Chinese residents' parents, spouses, or children outside China, the residents may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on pre- sentation of documentary verification. In general, if permission is granted to travel abroad, Chinese res- idents are allowed to take a reasonable amount of their own foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence. There is no tax on travel. Chinese residents who retire and emigrate are nor- mally permitted to receive their pensions abroad, but transfers of proceeds from the sale of their assets in China are limited. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by non- residents may be converted into foreign exchange certificates (FECs) denominated in renminbi. FECs can be used by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents for purchasing air- line tickets and train or ship fares and for interna- tional telecommunications and parcel post charges. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form issued by customs. FECs may be imported, but their exportation is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they have been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Foreign organizations resi- dent in China are not allowed to reconvert FECs into foreign currency. Nonresidents and resident foreigners in China leaving the country are permit- ted to reconvert only up to 50 percent of their origi- nal FECs upon presentation of documented FEC purchases. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is applied to foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the 14 open coastal cities and the newly open inland and border cities. Joint ventures must be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified as either "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.11 Plan borrowing includes (1) borrowing by the central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agri- culture, and MOFTEC and enterprises under the MOFTEC's control) from international organizations and bilateral sources; (2) official borrowing, including that by CITIC and international trust and investment companies (ITICs), mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad to finance plan projects; (3) borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects; (4) borrowing by pro- vincial financial institutions (either directly or through the BOC) for large projects included in provincial gov- ernments' annual plans; and (5) borrowing by the BOC and other financial institutions. Nonplan bor- rowing includes (1) borrowing by the BOC for pur- poses other than projects included in the annual plan (including interbank loans and foreign exchange deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad); (2) foreign exchange deposit-taking by other financial institutions; (3) short-term trade credits; (4) borrowing by joint-venture and 100 percent foreign-owned com- panies; (5) all borrowing at the provincial level to finance small projects; (6) lease financing; and (7) borrowing from offshore Chinese enterprises (mainly in Hong Kong). The plan of external borrowing for a specified fu ture period is approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates foreign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agen- cies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFTEC, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. The proposals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which the loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and, in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of 11 The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. It permits the BOC and other finan- cial and nonfmancial institutions responsible for undertaking commercial borrowing to contract short-term loans up to speci- fied limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by the SAEC. In August 1987, compre- hensive regulations were issued requiring that all foreign bor- rowing be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to service their external debt obligations and will be sub- ject to other penalties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Finance, and MOFTEC, recommends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments require the clearance of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international devel- opment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Ministry); intergovernmental loans are the respon- sibility of MOFTEC, and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the SAEC. Local governments and enterprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICs rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Resi- dent organizations issuing securities for foreign exchange must be approved by the PBC. According to regulations issued in September 1992, all medium- and long-term commercial bor- rowing abroad (including bond issues) under the plan requires prior approval from the SAEC on a case-by-case basis. Commercial borrowing can be channeled through one of several domestic enti- ties —the BOC, specialized banks, CITIC, and regional ITICs, which are allocated borrowing quo- tas under the annual plan. Financial institutions are permitted an annual ceiling for the balance out- standing on short-term loans. All foreign direct investment projects are, in prin- ciple, subject to the approval of MOFTEC. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct investment projects up to specified amounts. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up for insufficient domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Joint-venture enterprises and wholly foreign- owned companies are required to balance their for- eign exchange receipts and payments, and foreign borrowing must be reported to the SAEC.12 Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require 12 To help ind iv idual enterprises balance their foreign receipts and payments, enterprises with a su rp lus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit through the foreign exchange ad jus tment centers. SAEC approval. Enterprises involved in the exploi- tation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the ven- ture's foreign exchange account. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of paid- in capital. The profits of joint ventures in special economic zones, the 14 coastal cities, and the newly opened inland and border cities; and joint ventures exploit- ing petroleum, natural gas, and other specified resources are subject to tax at the rate of 15 percent; the tax rate for others is 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent local government surcharge on the assessed tax). A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profit-mak- ing years and allowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ventures in low- profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas considered to be economically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a fu r ther 15-30 per- cent reduction in income tax for another ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ven- tures established before the passing of tax regula- tions in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations with establishments in China engaged in independent business operations, coop- erative production, or joint business operations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, rang- ing from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 million. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks located in countries where income from interest on the deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempt from income tax are correspondingly exempted from this Chinese tax. Foreign businesses without establishments in China are subject to a reduced tax of 10 percent (half the usual rate) on interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit, trade, and leas- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 117 ing agreements made with Chinese companies and enterprises from 1983-85, but only for the duration of the agreements; interest earnings from export credits are exempt from income tax. For fees col- lected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communica- tions, transport, environmental protection, and the development of important techniques, income tax may, with the approval of the tax authorities, be lev- ied at the reduced rate of 10 percent or waived for advanced technology provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese dip- lomatic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in Hong Kong and Macao, are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 2. Revised guidelines stipulating the priori- ties for access to the foreign exchange adjustment centers were issued by the SAEC. Imports and Exports January 1. A Harmonized Commodity Descrip- tion and Coding System for customs tar iffs (consist- ing of 6,251 product items) was introduced, and the tar iffs on 225 items were reduced. April 1. The import regulatory du ty (effectively a surcharge on some imports) was eliminated. September 4. The Patent Law was amended to reflect international conventions. October 10. The Import Substitution List —an administrative (though not mandatory) measure for restricting imports of domestically produced goods—was eliminated. October 10. The intention to publish all internal regulations on foreign trade was announced. December 31. Customs tariffs on 3,371 items were reduced by an average of 7.3 percent. Capital March 1. The policy on foreign trade and invest- ment was fur ther liberalized, opening a large num- ber of inland and border areas to such activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. All foreign exchange operations take place at a mar- ket-determined exchange rate, with the Banco de la Republica setting a reference exchange rate.1 The Banco de la Republica sets the reference rate, taking into account the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners, the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves, and Colombia's overall balance of payments perfor- mance. The Banco de la Republica conducts foreign exchange transactions with the Central Govern- ment, decentralized public agencies, and financial intermediaries, but, since June 1991, no longer con- ducts foreign exchange transactions directly with the private sector. The only authorized foreign exchange intermediaries are commercial banks and financial corporations, which are required to hold a net foreign exchange position equivalent to at least 45 percent of their foreign exchange liabilities (out- standing at the end of June 1991). There are no regu- lations governing the net foreign exchange positions of exchange houses; they may sell their excess foreign assets to a financial intermediary. Foreign exchange proceeds earned by private sector exporters must be surrendered to authorized finan- cial intermediaries for exchange certificates issued by the Banco de la Republica, which may be sold in the foreign exchange market.2 However, private sector exporters are authorized to retain part of their export proceeds abroad. For- eign exchange proceeds earned by the public sector may be surrendered to financial intermediaries or to the Banco de la Republica for foreign exchange certificates. The Banco de la Republica stands ready to redeem exchange certificates before their matu- rity date at its reference exchange rate at a maxi- l rThe Banco de la Republica defines the market-determined exchange ra te as the simple average of the rates for exchange transactions effected by the financial intermediaries, excluding those for teller and interbank transactions (Resolution 15 of November 27, 1991). The reference rate is the rate at which exchange certificates are redeemed on ma tu r i ty (see footnote 2). 2 Exchange certificates which are non-interest bearing are issued to the bearer for a term of 12 months; they are freely nego- tiable and transferable by endorsement, and may be used to effect transfers abroad or may be redeemed in domestic currency with a max imum discount of 12.5 percent. Holders of exchange certificates may renew them vo lun tar i ly for another year, with an annual return set initially at 7 percent (in U.S. dollar terms with the rate ad jus ted quar ter ly). mum discount rate of 12.5 percent. Exchange proceeds from tourism, personal services rendered abroad, and donations of less than $20,000 are not required to be surrendered through the foreign exchange market but may be sold to an exchange house or to financial intermediaries or through the use of foreign accounts. Payments abroad can be made through exchange certificates (which are converted into foreign exchange by the Banco de la Republica on demand), through the purchase of foreign exchange from authorized financial institutions, or through the use of foreign accounts. On December 31, 1992, the reference rate of the Banco de la Republica was Col$ 811.77 per US$1, and the free market exchange rate was Col$ 737.98 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies3 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Other effective exchange rates result from (1) tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports (certifi- cados de reembolso tributario or CERTs) granted at three different percentage rates; (2) the imposition of a remittance tax at two d ifferent rates on transfers of earnings from foreign capital and repatriation of this capital; and (3) a 10 percent withholding tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers. The Government purchases for- eign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the average market rate. The Banco de la Republica stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por cer- tificados de cambio) to public enterprises in the elec- tric sector and the National Federation of Coffee Growers (Federation National de Cafeteros) in accordance with the terms of Resolution 16/1991 of the Banco de la Republica. These warrants, expressed in U.S. dollars, have a maturity of 12 months, and, in some cases, may also be exchanged for exchange certificates. Within their period of validity, warrants may also be sold to the Banco de la Republica for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. War- 3Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas (selling rate only), Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 119 rants bear interest at the rate equal to that of the external loan, but never higher than the average 30- day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued less 1 percentage point if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 12 months cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Banco de la Republica at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twelfth month. Residents are permitted to buy forward cover against exchange risks in respect of foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered at the Banco de la Republica on international mar- kets. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control All imports require registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). Administra- tive control is exercised by authorized foreign exchange intermediaries, and the Exchange Super- intendency, an autonomous agency reporting to the Ministry of Finance, enforces ex post control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, other public entities, and two officers of the FTC, determines overall import and export pol- icy. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, and administers Plan Vallejo, which is a special import- export arrangement concerning a rebate of taxes paid on imported inputs used in the production of exported goods. INCOMEX, together with the Com- mittee on Commercial Practices, administers anti- dumping cases. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives to the Banco de la Republica and the National Planning Department concerning direct investment in Colombia. The Banco de la Republica keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, and so on. Prescription of Currency The Banco de la Republica establishes the list of currencies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 3). Settlements for commer- cial transactions with countries with which Colom- bia has reciprocal credit agreements must be made through special accounts in accordance with the provisions of such agreements. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with China and the Russian Federation. Nonresident Accounts Exporters may maintain foreign accounts to pay for imports or invest abroad in financial assets. Pro- ceeds from tourism, personal services rendered abroad, or donations of up to $20,000 may be used to maintain foreign accounts abroad. Credit institu- tions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms; these deposits are freely available to the hold- ers, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Banco de la Republica. Banks must report transactions through these accounts to the Banco de la Republica. Imports and Import Payments Importers must obtain foreign exchange from the exchange market with exchange certificates pur- chased in the market, or may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad. Foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in the free trade areas are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange from financial intermediaries. Payments must be made within three months of the due date of pay- ment indicated in the import registration form, except for goods for immediate use (for example, raw materials, inputs, and consumer goods), pay- ment for which may be made in six months. Imports are subject to one of the following two regimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring regis- tration only with INCOMEX;4 and (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable 4 Imports or shipments with an f.o.b. va lue of less than $500 are classified as minor imports and do not have to be registered with INCOMEX. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 COLOMBIA to all countries, a national list applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. Imports subject to a prior licensing requirement consist of medicines and chemical prod- ucts (30 tariff positions) and weapons and munitions (39 tariff positions). A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports involve purchase of official foreign exchange from a financial intermediary, including imports of machinery and equipment financed by international credit institutions. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodi- ties constituting part of a direct investment. Import registrations are granted automatically. However, import registrations by some public sec- tor agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for 6 months, except those for agricultural and livestock products, which are valid for 3 months, and those for capital goods, which are valid for 12 months. Import licenses can be extended for only one period. All imports other than those classified as minor imports or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than $500 are subject to registration with INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceeding $10,000 are not subject to prior registration. The charge for import registration is Col$8,500. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are effected by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the average selling rate for exchange certificates during the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be effected through the exchange market. Foreign exchange for payments of less than $20,000 may also be obtained through exchange houses or commercial financing companies. Foreign exchange to finance private expenditures abroad and to pay for personal ser- vices provided by nonresidents in amounts of less than $20,000 may be obtained from an exchange house. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable to transfers of profits and dividends from new for- eign investment and from foreign capital invest- ment funds; the tax is 19 percent for transfers of profits and dividends from existing foreign invest- ment. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are normally as fol- lows: (1) for green coffee, within 90 days of the date of registration of exports (180 days for instant cof- fee); and (2) for other goods, 3 months af ter the pay- ment date as specified by the exporter. All exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to authorized financial intermediaries or for exchange certificates that can be sold in the free market. However, exporters are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad to settle import payments to invest abroad in financial assets. In addition, foreign enterprises in the oil, coal, and natural gas sectors and firms in free trade areas are not required to surrender their foreign exchange. On surrendering their export proceeds in the for- eign exchange market, exporters of products other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and exports effected through special arrangements (such as barter and compensation) may receive tax credit certificates in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the f.o.b. value surrendered, converted at the average selling rate for the exchange certificates during the previous month as determined by the Ministry of Finance. Three rates —2.5 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of destination; the rates are calculated on domestic value added. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and certain other taxes. Exports of coffee are subject to the following reg- ulations: (1) a minimum surrender price is fixed on the basis of the international market prices; (2) exporters pay a coffee contribution, which is determined by the difference between the export value of coffee surrendered and its estimated cost, taking into account the domestic buying price for export-type coffee; (3) exporters pay a 6.4 percent tax on surrendered export proceeds, of which 2.7 percent is earmarked for the National Federa- tion of Coffee Growers, and 3.7 percent for the National Coffee Fund; (4) exporters must either sur- render without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) a certain proportion of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent if the National Coffee Committee (composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Man- aging Director of the Federation) so decides (as of the end of 1991, this provision was not in opera- tion); and (5) the National Coffee Committee estab- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 121 lishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles, except for proceeds from tourism, labor contracts performed abroad, and donations amounting to less than $20,000, must be surrendered for exchange certifi- cates that can be sold on the exchange market. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the exchange certificate market rate. All foreign investments and foreign loans with maturities exceeding one year, direct lines of for- eign credit obtained by nonbank residents,5 and the transfer of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Banco de la Republica. Foreign direct investments in Colombia are governed by Law No. 9 of 1991 (January 17, 1991) and National Council for Eco- nomic and Social Planning (CONPES) Resolution Nos. 49, 51-53 of October 1991. These regulations are in accordance with the provisions of Decision Nos. 291 and 292 of the Cartagena Agreement, which govern foreign investments within the mem- ber countries of the Andean Pact. Foreign invest- ment is freely allowed up to 10 percent of ownership in any sector of the economy except in defense and waste disposal. Special regimes remain in effect in the financial, petroleum, and mining sectors. Foreign capital participation in the financial sector is permitted up to 100 percent; the purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Superintendent of Banks. CONPES can legislate special conditions affec t ing foreign investment in specific sectors of the economy and overrule the above-mentioned provisions (CON- PES Resolution Nos. 49, 51-53). Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian inves- tors for purposes of fulfilling the Colombian own- ership requirement, provided that prof it and capital remittances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. 5 Loans by financial entities for the importation of goods also require registration. Public sector loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime ra te or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Colombian investment abroad is granted auto- matically up to $500,000 by the National Planning Department. Investments over that amount require the approval of the National Planning Department. Registration of capital with the Banco de la Republica entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. Limitations on annual transfers of profits abroad were abolished in October 1991. Foreign investors may not repatriate their capital within one year of registration but are free to do so thereafter. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms are generally subject to a mini- mum maturity of one year. Special regulations allow the coffee and cotton sectors to contract for- eign loans of any maturity. The limit on contractual interest rates (2.5 percent over LIBOR) remains in effect for the public sector. Such loans are normally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for government entities in excess of specified amounts require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Govern- ment, or guaranteed by the Government, the fol- lowing are also required: prior authorization from the National Council for Economic and Social Pol- icy and from the Banco de la Republica; prior con- sultation with the Interparliamentary Committee on Public Credit; and ex post approval from the President of the Republic. Such loans are also sub- ject to the executive decree that authorizes the initi- ation of negotiations. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to make investments in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted with the approval of the National Planning Board. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Banco de la Republica to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they also require approval from the Royalties Com- mittee before they can be registered. Colombian residents are authorized to maintain assets and earned income abroad, provided that they have been acquired from exchange receipts that do not have to be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 Gold COLOMBIA Under Law 9 of January 17,1991, Colombian resi- dents are allowed to purchase, sell, hold, import, and export gold. The Banco de la Republica makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equiva- lent to the average quotation in the gold market in London during the previous day; this price is con- verted into pesos at the prevailing rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Exchange Superintendency. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Banco de la Republica from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 30. The minimum net foreign exchange position for commercial banks and financial corpo- rations was increased to 45 percent from 30 percent. July 1. The tax on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and on other transfers was increased to 10 percent from 3 percent. October 26. Holders of exchange certificates were given the option of renewing them for another year, with an annual return set initially at 7 percent (in U.S. dollar terms with the rate adjustable quarterly). Nonresident Accounts January 28. Exporters were allowed to maintain foreign accounts to settle import payments and to invest abroad in financial assets. Imports and Import Payments January 31. The 5 percent surtax was abolished, and a new tariff regime incorporating this surtax was introduced. Exports and Export Proceeds January 28. Export surrender requirements were liberalized substantially. The authorization to retain part of the export proceeds abroad, previously granted only to the state petroleum enterprise (ECO- PETROL), the National Federation of Coffee Grow- ers, and to state enterprises exporting minerals, was extended to all exporters. March 12. The rates on tax credit certificates were lowered to 2.5 percent, 4 percent, and 5 percent from 5 percent, 8 percent, and 10 percent, respec- tively. Capital January 15. The requirement to maintain the investments made in mutual funds for at least one year was abolished. In addition, Colombian resi- dents were allowed to hold foreign stocks and other portfolio investments abroad. February 5. The minimum maturity on foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms was reduced from five years to one year, and the limit on contractual interest rates (2.5 per- cent over LIBOR) was eliminated for the private sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 per F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 per F1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also offi- cially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is autho- rized by the Central Bank of the Comoros and is provided to traders by the commercial bank for up to three months. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of the Comoros maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South Afr ican origin are prohibited, and the importation of certain other goods is pro- hibited from all countries. The importation of other goods, except those originating from member coun- tries of the European Community, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to individ- ual licensing. All import transactions relating to for- eign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Administration of Control Payments for Invisibles Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ment. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an autho- rized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- torate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Invisible pay- ments to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when supporting documents can be produced, in accordance with Article 3 of Instruction No. 2 of the Exchange Regulations. These regulations apply to allowances for educa- tion, family maintenance, and medical treatment, as well as to remittances by foreign workers of savings from their earnings. Residents traveling as tourists to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of pay- ment. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out in any 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 COMOROS means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. For business travel, the Central Bank of the Comoros may authorize a special allowance on the request of the authorized bank. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in bank notes and any means of pay- ment issued abroad in their name without provid- ing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the Exchange Regulations when supporting documents can be produced. Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investment is authorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to any destination are free of licensing requirements. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be collected; the receipts must be repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are normally permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any applicable exchange control requirements) are maintained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. Payments to foreign countries, including France and its overseas departments and territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as credits to foreign accounts are subject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; an additional commission of 0.25 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. Exempt from this commission are payments of the state, state enter- prises, international organizations, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service pay- ments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Congo. Foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office is sub- ject to a commission of 0.50 percent, with a mini- mum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and invest- ment transactions with all foreign countries, how- l rrhe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Bank of Central Afr ican States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equa to- rial Guinea. ever, are subject to control. (Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo.) The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated approval authority to the General Directorate. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the For- eign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Com- merce. The system of import licenses has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations for all but 13 products (Decree No. 88/414, May 28,1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs, but the notes must be mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign cor- respondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaration or a license. An annual import program distinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other Operations Account countries; (4) European Community (EC) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this program require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 REPUBLIC OF CONGO goods originating in any non-Operations Account country. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and require a visa from the Foreign Trade Directorate and the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'assurances et de reassur- ances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized inter- mediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are permit- ted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; they must surrender any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after their return to the Congo. Business travelers receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; addi- tional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of pay- ment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes, and nonresi- dents may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be made freely; among the exceptions are com- modities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office du cafe et du cacao and Office des cultures vivrieres) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office con- golais du bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transac- tions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital transfers between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, although ex post decla- rations are required. Capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 1.0 percent. Most international capi- tal transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 127 eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may apply) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, and offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. For- eign direct investments in the Congo3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the minister within 20 days. (Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization from the Minister of Finance and the Bud- get. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. However, loans con- tracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Congo. 3Including those involving the transfer, between nonresidents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) transactions carried out by registered banks; (2) loans granted by residents when the total amount outstanding of loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million or the equivalent in for- eign currency for any one lender; and (3) loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The mak- ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be reported to the General Direc- torate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The code provides for four cat- egories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Until February 29,1992, Costa Rica followed a flexible exchange rate arrangement, under which the exchange rate was adjusted periodically, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading partners and balance of payments developments. On March 1,1992, a new exchange rate arrangement was introduced, which allowed com- mercial banks and other financial institutions, under the supervision of the Auditor General of Financial Institutions, to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates immediately, for current transactions (including debt-service payments) and as of June 1, 1992 for other capital transactions.1 Ninety percent of export receipts are required to be sold to the autho- rized entities at market rates, and 25 percent of all for- eign exchange purchased by those entities is required to be sold to the Central Bank of Costa Rica, which would meet its additional requirements from the mar- ket and would intervene, as needed, to smooth out large swings in the exchange rate. The Government and public sector institutions con- duct foreign exchange transactions directly with the Central Bank. These operations are carried out at the reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates observed in the market during the previous working day. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling bank rates were C 136.74 and C 138.07, respectively, per US$1. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1,1965. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are issued by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank, the state commercial banks, private banks, and other nonbank financial institutions authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1 In November 1992, nonbank financial institutions were also permitted to operate in the foreign exchange marke t. Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in U.S. dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in U.S. dollars or in local currencies. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are subject to licensing require- ments. All payments for imports may be made freely. All imports must be registered with the Central Bank before removal from customs, with the following exceptions: (1) temporary imports; (2) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; and (3) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Customs tar iff rates on most goods range from zero to 27 percent. In addition to any applicable customs tar iff, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 12 percent ad valorem, from which cer- tain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from zero to 75 percent, depending on the essential quality of the item. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transporta- tion, trucks, ambulances, hearses, and chassis with a single or dual cab are exempt from the surcharge. Other vehicles with an import value of up to $6,000 are subject to a surcharge of 15 percent. Pickup trucks with a weight capacity of up to 1 ton are sub- ject to a surcharge of 17 percent and those with a weight of more than 1 ton are subject to a surcharge of 2 percent plus a tax of 2 percent. Minibuses for collective transportation and vehi- cles are subject to the selective consumption tax at the following rates: (1) those with a customs value of less than $7,000, 12 percent; (2) those with a cus- toms value exceeding $7,000, with displacement of up to 1,500 cubic centimeters, 20 percent; (3) those with a customs value exceeding $7,000, with dis- placement of more than 1,500 cubic centimeters, 30 percent; and (4) others, depending on value, dis- placement, and accessories, 25 percent. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; those with a weight of over 1 ton are exempt. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 129 Pickup trucks are subject to a selective consumption tax of 15 percent. Chassis of less than 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent; dual-cab chassis weighing less than 1 ton are sub- ject to a selective consumption tax of 15 percent; and dual-cab pickup trucks weighing more than 1 ton are subject to 15 percent. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent are levied on remit- tances of dividends. The 5 percent withholding tax is levied on dividends distributed by stock companies whose shares were acquired at the stock exchange and are registered at an officially acknowledged stock exchange. Remittances of interest abroad are subject to a 15 percent withholding tax, except for remittances to foreign banks or to their financial entities recognized by the Central Bank as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, including payments to foreign suppliers for commodity imports. Interest on loans from foreign institutions recognized by the Cen- tral Bank as first-rate institutions is not taxed if the funds are used by resident firms for industrial or agri- cultural/livestock activities. Interest on government borrowing abroad is exempt. Costa Rican nationals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, land, or sea must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to $31; Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of $20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. Costa Rican diplomats and their dependents and certain Peace Corps officials pay an exit fee of only C117, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Capital inflows may be registered in advance at the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are allowed to keep up to 10 percent of export proceeds in foreign currency to care for their own needs. They must sell, at the market buying exchange rate, no less than 90 percent of their export proceeds to any financial institution authorized to operate in foreign exchange. In turn, that financial institution must transfer to the Central Bank 25 percent of total purchases of foreign exchange related to exports. The exchange rate applicable to this transfer is the buying exchange rate of the insti- tution plus C 0.10 per US$1. Exporters of nontradi- tional products to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive freely negotiable tax credit cer- tificates (CATs) at the following rates based on the f.o.b. value: 15 percent for exports to the United States, Puerto Rico, and Europe; and 20 percent for exports to Canada.2 Exports are subject to a formulario unico de export- ation (issued by Centro para la Promocion de Exportaciones) for foreign exchange control pur- poses. In addition to this license, other export licenses are required for strategic goods, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Econ- omy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, root of ipecacuanha, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, certain livestock, and ani- mals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, and bovine cattle must be surrendered within 30 days of shipment; those from exports of other perishable agricultural items, within 60 days of shipment; those from exports of industrial products (excluding those indicated next) and other agricul- tural products, within 120 days of shipment; those from exports of durable and semidurable industrial consumer products, within 180 days of shipment; and those from exports of capital goods, within 360 days of shipment. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be exchanged into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers, and capital transactions between residents and nonresi- dents are permitted. Private sector capital inflows must be registered at the Central Bank if the amount exceeds $5,000; the individual concerned is not required to sell the foreign exchange to the Central 2 CATs ceased to be issued to new exporters a f ter December 31, 1992. Existing exporters continue to benefit from the CATs con- sistent with their specific contractual arrangements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 COSTA RICA Bank. This registration does not imply that the Cen- tral Bank is required to sell to the individual the exchange required to service the debt. An annual limit of 6.25 percent of the face value of the debt con- verted is imposed on dividend remittances associ- ated with debt/equity conversions. The National Budget Authority3 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Government, decentral- ized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of specified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Natural and juridical persons may negotiate, subject to approval from the Central Bank, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or profes- sional users or to enterprises that export jewelry. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The system of periodic devaluations of the exchange rate was discontinued, and a new exchange rate arrangement was introduced, under which commercial banks and other financial insti- tutions under the supervision of the Auditor Gen- eral of Financial Institutions would be allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates immediately for current transactions (includ- ing debt-service payments) and as of June 1, 1992 for other capital transactions. Ninety percent of export receipts would have to be sold to the autho- rized entities at market rates and 25 percent of all 3 Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. foreign exchange purchased by those entities would have to be sold to the Central Bank, which would meet its additional requirements from the market and would intervene, as needed, to smooth out large swings in the exchange rate to meet the foreign reserves target. The Government, its institu- tions, and public enterprises would purchase and sell foreign exchange through the Central Bank, at the reference buying or selling exchange rate. The reference rates would be calculated by the Central Bank as the weighted average of the respective exchange rates for the foreign exchange transac- tions performed by the authorized institutions dur- ing the previous working day. Financial institutions authorized to participate in the foreign exchange market would not be allowed to take positions in foreign exchange in excess of the margins set by the Board of the Central Bank. Banks would be required to keep the balance of their authorized position at the end of each week. The daily variation of these balances must exceed 5 percent. For the purposes of this regulation, a bank's initial position in foreign exchange was defined as the difference between its assets and lia- bilities in foreign exchange outstanding on Febru- ary 19,1992. November 1. Nonbank financial institutions were permitted to operate in the foreign exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds March 1. Exporters were allowed to keep up to 10 percent of earnings to meet their own foreign exchange needs. They were required to sell, at the market buying exchange rate, no less than 90 percent of their earnings to any financial institution autho- rized to conduct foreign exchange, and, in turn, the financial institution was required to transfer to the Central Bank 25 percent of the foreign exchange it purchased from exporters. The buying exchange rate of the institution plus C 0.10 per US$1 would be applied to these transfers. Capital March 1. All controls on capital transactions were eliminated. Commercial banks and nonbank finan- cial institutions were authorized to raise deposits in foreign currency for their own account and at their own risk or on behalf of the Central Bank. In addi- tion, all financial institutions regulated by the Audi- tor General of Financial Institutions were authorized to extend loans in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks and the postal system levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Cote d'lvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential com- modities; no renewal of cover is possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of External Finance and Credit, only for payments for imports of goods and only for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. There are no official schemes lrThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the f lat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of External Trade and International Economic Relations in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to the external debt-service obligations of the central Government. Prescription of Currency Since Cote d'lvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearinghouse. Settlements with all other countries are effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 132 COTE D'lVOIRE value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by autho- rized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Under the current regulations, all imports are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) pro- hibited imports (e.g., wheat, flour, and used gar- ments); (2) items for which import licenses are required (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents); and (3) freely importable items, for which a statistical declaration is required if the transaction equals or exceeds CFAF 100,000. Certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. For example, rice imports are intended to supplement domestic production to satisfy domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any coun- try; however, imports whose f.o.b. value is CFAF 100,000 or more are subject to submission of an import declaration. Imports whose f.o.b. value exceeds CFAF 2 million require a preshipment in- spection by international agencies to ver ify their price, quantity, and quality. A special import du ty of 10 percent is levied on all imports with the ex- ception of live animals, fish, dairy products, petro- leum products, pharmaceuticals, books, and products imported under the investment code. A statistical tax of 2.5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. During 1989, tar iffs were raised with a view to harmonizing effective protection of local production. For some goods, quotas were re- placed by temporary surcharges scheduled to de- cline progressively during a five-year period that began in 1988. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharges. All import operations valued at more than CFAF 500,000 conducted with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank; trans- actions of lower value must also be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened, and only on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Since June 15,1981, foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month, without submitting documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. On returning to Cote dTvoire, residents must surrender any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining from their travels. The trans- fer abroad of the fu ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote dTvoire is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to a value of CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to cus- toms amounts exceeding CFAF 150,000 that they take out. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any trav- eler's checks issued abroad. Subject to documenta- tion, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks in their name in foreign currency purchased with CFA francs in Cote d'lvoire or pur- chased with funds drawn from a foreign account in francs. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports require a declaration but not a license. Prior authorization is required for exports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 133 of diamonds and certain metals, such as gold. Exports of logs, sawn wood, and cola nuts require an export license (issued by the Directorate of External Trade), and exports of lumber are subject to quotas allocated through auction. Exports of cer- tain types of wood are prohibited. A premium is paid for locally manufactured products and agri- cultural products (excluding unprocessed coffee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples) on the basis of the export value added. Reference prices and indicative producer prices for exports of cocoa and coffee (in f.o.b.) are announced at the beginning of each new crop season on October 1 by the Agricultural Price Stabilization Fund. The Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning may impose a unitary export tax to absorb any resulting surplus, the proceeds of which accrue directly to the Treasury. Export taxes are waived for products receiving the premium, and products covered by taxation agreements under the WAEC are not eligible for the premium. Payment for exports to foreign countries, includ- ing those in the Operations Account Area, must be made within 180 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of set- tlement and of the country of destination, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declara- tion to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply, are maintained over borrowing abroad by the private sector, for- eign inward direct investment, all outward direct investment in foreign countries, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Cote d'lvoire. Such operations require prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning, as do issues by Cote d'lvoire companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government of Cote d'lvoire, and (2) foreign shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote d'lvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization from the Minis- ter of Economy, Finance, and Planning.3 Foreign direct investments in Cote d'lvoire must be autho- rized in advance by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning.4 Effec t ive June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Cote d'lvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of direct and other invest- ments in Cote d'lvoire or abroad must also be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of investments, whether Ivoirien investments abroad or foreign investments 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. 4 Including those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Cote d'lvoire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 COTE D'lVOIRE in Cote d'lvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each operation. (Direct invest- ments are defined as those that imply control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be authorized in advance by the Minister of Econ- omy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Cote d'lvoire, or those by approved international trading houses to finance international trade trans- actions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and pro- vided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the for- malities prescribed for the liquidation of direct in- vestments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to ex- change control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tar iffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for investment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote d'lvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of -applicable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the third-to-last year, 50 percent in the second-to-last year, and 25 percent in the last year. Imports of raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote d'lvoire. Imports and exports of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning; authorization is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 29. The list of freely importable goods was extended to include, among other things, phos- phates, fertilizers, reinforced concrete, milling ma- chines, and light vehicles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA1 (Position as of June 13,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Croatia is the Croa t ian Dinar. Its o f f ic ial exchange ra te against the deutsche ma rk is established daily by the Na t ional Bank of Croatia on the basis of ma rket indicators (expected domestic and foreign in f la t ion in the month ahead) and in consultation w i th commer- cial banks. The Na t ional Bank also sets the exchange rates of the dinar against the U.S. dollar and other currencies on the basis of the cross rates between the respective currencies and the deutsche ma rk prevailing in the F r a n k f u rt foreign exchange market. The Na t ional Bank publishes a daily list of o f f ic ial exchange rates for the ECU and 22 currencies (including the deutsche ma rk ) .2 On March 31, 1993, the bank's o f f ic ial exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was HrD 1,556.2724 per US$1. Its transactions rate, which is equivalent to the unweighted average of the exchange rates in the banks on the day the o f f ic ial ra te was last changed, is used for customs va lua t ion and accounting purposes, the w i thd rawal of resi- dents' blocked foreign exchange deposits in Croatian dinars (where permitted), court rulings, and other purchases and sales by the Na t ional Bank. Apa rt f rom the deutsche mark, the Na t ional Bank deals only in U.S dollars. Banks may apply margins of up to 0.5 percent of the off ic ial exchange ra te in their transactions with customers and may also charge commis- sions. On March 31,1993, the exchange ra te of the Croatian dinar against the deutsche ma rk was HrD 956 per DM1. Banks must sell 35 percent of the value of bank notes and t rave le r 's checks they purchase from individuals to the Na t ional Bank at its transactions rate. These sales must take place at least on the f i f teen th of each mon th and at the end of each month, but they may take place more frequently, provided that the amount of the sale is at least $20,000 or its equivalent in other currencies. 1PThe Republic of Croatia (and the Republic of Slovenia) suc- ceeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia in the IMF, with effect from December 14,1992. 2Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japa- nese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Slovenian tolar, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. There are no taxes or subidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The foreign exchange law of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as modified by a decree law of December 23, 1991 and adopted by Croatia on a temporary basis, is being administered by the National Bank pending the enactment of new legislation. This decree law authorizes the National Bank to formulate and administer exchange rate policy and issue foreign exchange regulations. A foreign trade law (coordinated with domestic trade legislation) is under preparation. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. Foreign direct investment and the representative offices of foreign companies must be registered with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Foreign exchange transactions must be conducted through authorized banks; currently 36 commercial banks in Croatia are licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Restricted licenses are given to banks that may open accounts for resident natural persons and buy and sell bank notes and checks (currently 4 banks). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Croatia maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment with Slovenia, under which trade between the two countries may be settled through accounts in local currency or in any foreign currency. A similar arrangement is followed for trade with Bosnia- Herzegovina. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural persons may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. Balances in these accounts as of April 27, 1991, however, have been frozen in accordance with the decree law of December 23, 1991 and are being released only in special cases with the permission of 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 CROATIA the Ministry of Finance. At present, only elderly people are allowed to withdraw DM 100 a month, converted at the National Bank's transactions rate. There are no restrictions on withdrawals of balances deposited after April 27,1991, and withdrawals may be converted into domestic currency or may be used to make payments for imports for personal use. Returning residents (e.g., workers and embassy staff) must close their accounts abroad and repatriate the proceeds within 60 days of arriving in Croatia. Proceeds of exports of goods and services by resi- dent juridical persons are subject to the fu ll surren- der requirement. Resident juridical persons are permitted to finance construction abroad or to tem- porarily maintain foreign exchange accounts with the funds of foreign investors paid in the residents' favor prior to investment by foreign investors in Croatia. Only certain resident juridical persons (e.g., construction companies, shipping companies, and airlines) are permitted, with the prior approval of the National Bank, to maintain accounts abroad. Under a bilateral payments agreement, residents of Croatia and Slovenia are free to open and operate accounts in domestic currency in the other country but must report them to the National Bank for mon- itoring purposes. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from exports, and balances in these accounts can be used only for import pay- ments. Withdrawals in cash are not permitted with- out special permission from the National Bank. Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. These accounts may be credited freely with foreign exchange and debited for payments abroad for con- version into domestic currency; reconversion of domestic currency into a foreign currency is not permitted. Juridical persons may not credit these accounts with foreign bank notes without special permission from the National Bank. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open accounts in domestic currency with the pro- ceeds from sales of goods and services or with for- eign exchange transferred from abroad. Juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange with funds held in these accounts without restriction, but natu- ral persons may purchase foreign exchange only for specified purposes, for example, in receipt of an inheritance or to pay alimony, if their country of resi- dence grants the same right to Croatian residents. Imports and Import Payments uct classification of the import regime of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is main- tained, with a free list (LB), a list of items subject to value quotas (KV) and volume quotas (KK), and a list of items subject to ad hoc licensing (D). Items on the free list (just under 6,000 out of a total of about 6,600) comprise about 90 percent of the value of imports. Of the restricted items, only 0.1 percent of imports are subject to licensing, 1.6 percent to value quotas, and 8.6 percent to vol- ume quotas. The Ministry of Trade and Tourism, in consultation with the Chamber of Commerce, administers the quotas and licensing. List D includes items whose importation is controlled by interna- tional agreement for noneconomic reasons (e.g., arms, gold, illegal drugs and narcotics, and artistic and historic work). The importation of these items is allowed on a case-by-case basis and for specific pur- poses. Imports from Slovenia are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 18 percent (compared with up to 25 percent in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) plus a tax of up to 10 percent, a special import tax of up to 5 percent,3 and a customs administration fee of 1 percent. Imports of luxury goods are subject to an additional surcharge of 7.5 percent. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Republic of Slo- venia, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia are exempt from the basic import tariff, provided that the goods are completely produced in these countries or their domestic value added is at least 51 percent through local processing. Imports from these countries are, however, not exempt from the 10 percent tax, the special import tax of up to 7.5 percent, and the customs administration fee of 1 percent. The exemption for duty-free imports by travelers is $100. Other goods imported by travelers and postal shipments are subject to a simplified cus- toms procedure with a unified tariff rate of 8 percent, plus all special import taxes up to the value of $500. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are applied. Returning citizens may bring into the country household effects duty-free up to the equivalent of $45,000 for household effects and $100,000 for private business purposes. Under cer- tain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment purposes are exempt from import duties. Also, raw materials and intermediate products used in the production of exports are exempt from all Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Pending the introduction of a new import regime, the prod- 3 A special import tax of up to 10 percent is applied to all but a few imported goods, most of which are consumer goods. A spe- cial import tax of up to 15 percent is applied to the products that are exempt from the special import tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 137 import duties and taxes, except the 1 percent cus- toms fee, provided that the value added of the export product is at least 30 percent of the value of the imported items and that export proceeds are received in convertible currency. These imports are subject only to a 1 percent customs fee. Payments for authorized imports by jur id ical persons are not restricted. Advance payments for imports are not permitted, except when down payments are required by suppliers in accordance with customary international practices and in accordance with the Na t ional Bank's regulations. Resident na tu ral persons may make import pay- ments with their foreign currency account bal- ances if the imports are for their personal use and are not for resale. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports by juridical persons may be made freely. Payments of leasing fees are permitted provided that temporary imports have been registered with the Customs Office. Natural persons are permitted to make payments for invisibles from balances in for- eign exchange accounts that have been credited since April 27,1991. Foreign exchange is provided to natu- ral persons for medical treatment abroad, court expenses, copyrights, and alimony payments. For- eign exchange allowances are not provided for tour- ism, study abroad, and payments of insurance and royalties. Life and casualty insurance with foreign companies are prohibited. Foreign bank notes equivalent to DM 1,000 may be taken out provided that they are withdrawn from foreign currency accounts. The exportation of Croatian currency by both residents and nonresi- dents is limited to HrD 100,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. In princi- ple, exports are free of restrictions except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (list D products: e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects); several basic foodstuffs to ensure adequate domes- tic supplies; and high-quality wood. Export proceeds must be collected and repatri- ated in fu ll to Croatia within 60 days of the date of exportation and surrendered in full to commercial banks within 2 business days. If payment terms in excess of 60 days have been agreed with foreign importers, the credit arrangement must be regis- tered with the National Bank, which may extend the normal 60-day period on a case-by-case basis. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from services are, in principle, subject to the same regulations as those that apply to mer- chandise exports. The importation of Croatian cur- rency by both residents and nonresidents is limited to HrD 100,000 a person. Capital Resident ju r id ical persons, including commer- cial banks, may borrow abroad. They are required to register the loans contracted, including com- mercial credits, with the National Bank. Financial credits may be extended to nonresidents only if they are financed from profits or credit obtained from abroad. Na tu ral persons are not permitted to obtain or extend loans to nonresidents in domestic or foreign currency. The National Bank is autho- rized to impose limits on the foreign exchange positions of commercial banks; currently, limits are not in effec t. Foreign direct investment by nonresidents may take the form of joint ventures or full ownership, except in the financial sector. Repatriation of capital and transfers abroad of profits are not restricted. In principle, domestic and foreign investment is treated equally, but in practice nonresident inves- tors enjoy certain benefits. If the foreign equity cap- ital participation exceeds 20 percent, inputs used in the project are exempt from import duties. Earnings in the first year of operation are exempt from the profit tax, and 50 percent and 25 percent of earnings in the second and third years, respectively, are exempt from the profit tax. Foreign direct invest- ment abroad by residents requires permission from the Ministry of Finance and must be registered with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Such invest- ment must generally be undertaken through loans abroad or through reinvestment of profits. Inward portfolio investment is not restricted, but outward portfolio investment is. Nonresident natural persons may acquire real estate in Croatia through inheritance as long as their country of residence extends reciprocal treatment to residents of Croatia. Nonresident natural persons not engaged in economic activities in Croatia may purchase real estate only under the same conditions but must have permission from the Ministry of For- eign Affairs. Nonresident natural or juridical persons engaged in economic activities in Croatia may also purchase real estate under these conditions and may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 CROATIA sell it to resident or nonresident juridical persons. In principle, residents may acquire real estate abroad on the basis of reciprocity of treatment, but in prac- tice, they are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market for this purpose; the use of balances in foreign exchange accounts for this purpose is also prohibited. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are sub- ject to ad hoc licensing requirements. The licensing of exports of gold, except unprocessed gold by pro- ducers of gold and gold coins by commercial banks, is enforced by the National Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound, the external value of which is pegged to a basket based on the European Currency Unit (ECU) at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1, within margins of ±2.25 per- cent around the ECU central rate. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4822 and £C 0.4841, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buy- ing and selling rates for the ECU, deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. These rates are subject to change throughout the day. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign curren- cies1 on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. Subject to certain limita- tions, including a limit on spreads between the buy- ing and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are allowed to trade in the forward market at rates that may be freely negoti- ated with their customers. For U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, however, forward rates may not d iffer by more than the premiums or discounts that are applied by the Central Bank for cover for a simi- lar period. Authorized dealers are allowed to pur- chase forward cover from the Central Bank at prevailing rates or to conduct forward operations between two foreign currencies for cover in one of the two currencies. The Central Bank offers autho- rized dealers facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports for periods of up to 24 months. Cover for imports is normally provided for up to 6 months. When justified (for example, payments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates are quoted for up to 15 months. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. Forward cover may also be provided for up to 12 months to resi- dents for specific financial commitments. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Cyprus formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 9,1991. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an external account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an external account, or in any foreign currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated external accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other external accounts or foreign currency accounts), pro- ceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresi- dents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. Exter- nal accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other external accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pay- ments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Compa- nies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded nonresident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain external accounts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Res- ident persons and firms dealing with transit trade or engaged in producer-exporter activities or in the 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 CYPRUS hotel business may open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts subject to certain requirements. Exporters may deposit up to 50 percent of export proceeds in these accounts and use balances to pay for imports of raw materials used in production. Account holders are, however, required to convert into Cyprus pounds at the end of each year any bal- ances in excess of the amount that is necessary for payments of imports during the following three months. Expatriates (considered as residents for for- eign exchange control purposes) may keep in foreign currency, in external accounts in Cyprus, or in accounts abroad all of their foreign currency hold- ings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Blocked accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds is freely transferable to the nonresident bene- ficiary or may be credited to an external account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, up to £C 5,000 in principal may be released annually from blocked funds for transfer outside Cyprus. Funds can also be released from blocked accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, including educa- tional expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immov- able property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of licensing requirements. Only imports of certain commodities require an import license, including fresh fruits, fresh vegeta- bles, fresh meat, goods produced or manufactured locally, and plant and equipment. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may take measures whenever required to regulate the importation of goods for the encouragement of local production and manufacture. Exchange is allocated freely and without restriction through authorized dealers to pay for imports, provided that documentary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 20,000. Authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing residents of Cyprus foreign exchange up to £C 20,000 for purchases and for the importation of goods into Cyprus; foreign exchange in excess of this limit may be sold to departing residents with the approval of the Central Bank. An import sur- charge of 3.8 percent (2.5 percent for imports from European Community countries) ad valorem is lev- ied on all imports, except food, pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, but approval author- ity for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and inter- est from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad without limitation, after pay- ment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance pre- miums owed to foreign insurance companies may be remitted after all contingencies have been deducted. Allowances are granted for study abroad at col- leges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower-level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. The maxi- mum annual allowance for living expenses for studies in Western European countries, excluding Greece, is £C 4,400; for Greece, £C 2,800; for Canada and the United States, £C 5,600; for Eastern Euro- pean and Middle Eastern countries, £C 2,500; and for all other countries, £C 3,000. There is no limit on the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. Any amount of foreign exchange may be allo- cated for tourist travel abroad. The ceiling on for- eign exchange for tourist travel was lifted on November 1, 1990 in the context of the liberaliza- tion measures taken by the Central Bank. Autho- rized dealers have been allowed, without any reference to the Central Bank, to provide foreign exchange up to £C 750 a person a trip. In addition, the Central Bank approves applications for alloca- tions of additional foreign exchange without limita- tion to cover genuine travel expenses for tourism purposes. The allowance for business travel is not fixed but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000. Company credit cards valid abroad are issued to businessmen and professionals traveling abroad on business. Credit cards entitle the holders to charge their expenses for hotels, restaurants, and transpor- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 141 tation without limit and personal expenses up to £C 400 a trip, including cash withdrawals of up to £C 100. If the traveler holds an international card, authorized dealers are allowed to provide up to £C 60 a day in foreign exchange. Authorized deal- ers are also allowed to issue personal credit cards to certain categories of persons. Enterprises may use credit cards for payments of up to £C 300 for mail orders of books or other items. Additional amounts for business travel may be provided with the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange for medical expenses abroad is granted without limit, and authorized dealers are empowered to provide allowances of up to £C 3,000 for medical expenses. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that departing residents may take out of the coun- try as part of any of their foreign exchange allow- ances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Individuals must declare any foreign exchange that they plan to use to purchase goods to export, or to purchase properties, or to deposit with authorized dealers. Nonresidents may export up to $1,000 in foreign currency notes even if they did not declare them on arrival. In addition, authorized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign cur- rency for departing nonresidents and are permitted to issue to nonresidents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to con- trol by the respective marketing boards, and exports of wheat, barley, and maize are subject to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. All exports are subject to licensing when their f.o.b. value exceeds £C 100 to ensure the repatriation of the sale proceeds. Export proceeds must be surren- dered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature require authorization from the Central Bank. Direct invest- ment abroad by residents is permitted, provided that the proposed investments will promote exports of goods and services or will benefit the Cypriot economy. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in considering applications, gives due regard to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earnings, the introduc- tion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the national economy. Foreign direct investment is normally permitted in selected fields of production, such as export-oriented industries and new technology projects. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments, including capital gains, may be repa- triated in full at any time, af ter any charges and taxes have been paid. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire immovable prop- erty in Cyprus for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the property; the balance, if any, is transferable at the yearly rate of £C 5,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots pur- chasing a holiday home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nation- als) who take up residence outside Cyprus may immediately transfer abroad up to £C 10,000; any excess amount is deposited in a blocked account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds from estates and intesta- cies and from the sale of real estate, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraph, is limited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a blocked account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. Interest earned on a blocked account can be freely transferred abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by resi- dents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 CYPRUS The exportation of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement June 19. The peg of the Cyprus pound was changed from a trade-weighted basket to a basket based on the ECU. The central rate was set at ECU 1.7086 per £C 1 within margins of ±2.25 percent around the ECU central rate. hoteliers, who may deposit in these accounts part of their earnings in foreign currency and use balances to repay foreign currency loans. Imports and Import Payments November 5. The limit on advance payments for imports that authorized dealers are permitted to make without prior approval from the Central Bank was increased from £C 2,000 to £C 20,000. Capital Resident and Nonresident Accounts July 3. The list of customers to whom loans or other credit facilities in foreign currency may be issued by banks was fur ther widened. September 3. The Central Bank delegated author- ity to authorized dealers to open and operate for- eign currency accounts in the name of resident December 15. The amount that may be released annually from blocked accounts for transfer abroad was increased from £C 5,000 to £C 10,000, effective January 1,1993. December 18. With effect from January 1,1993, the limits on assets emigrants may transfer abroad was increased from £C 10,000 to £C 20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC1 (Position as of February 28,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech Koruna.2 Its ex ternal value is determined on the basis of a basket consisting of f ive curren- cies.3 This exchange ra te applies to all transac- tions except w i th the Slovak Republic, and on February 28, 1993, the buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were Kcs 28.741 and Kcs 29.029, respectively, per US$1. A f loa t ing exchange ra te applies to tourist transactions w i th the Slovak Republic. The National Bank of the Czech Republic (CNB) quotes daily buying and selling rates for 21 con- vertible currencies4 and for the European Currency Unit (ECU) and the SDR. The rates are based on the cross rates of these currencies with the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market and of the rates quoted for convertible cur- rencies in the domestic interbank foreign exchange market. The difference between the rates calculated on the basis of these two methods does not exceed ±0.5 percent. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are respon- sible for administering exchange controls and regu- lations in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority over governmental credits and over bud- getary and subsidized organizations, civic associa- tions, churches, religious societies, and the business activities of natural persons. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all registered enter- prises and entrepreneurs. Czech Republic (and the Slovak Republic) became a member of the IMF on Janua ry 1, 1993 through the membership of the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. 2 Korunas were issued on February 4, 1993 following the dis- solution of the currency union with the Slovak Republic, which had used the Czechoslovak koruna as currency. 3 Since May 3,1993, the basket has consisted of two currencies (deutsche mark and U.S. dollar). 4Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japa- nese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Payments to and receipts from countries with which the Czech Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements may be effected in the currencies stipulated or in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements.5 For countries with which the Czech Republic does not have a bilateral agreement and for trade outside the framework of the agreements, settlements are effected in convert- ible currency. Since February 1993, commercial transactions with the Slovak Republic have been effected through a clearing account maintained by the central banks of the two countries. Transactions are converted from the currency of the contract into "clearing ECUs" at a rate, which may d i f fer by up to 5 percent from the cross rate against the ECU, set by the central banks. If the balances on the account outstanding at the end of each month exceed clear- ing ECU 130 million, they are settled in convertible currency by the f if teen th of the following month. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Czech residents may open interest-bearing foreign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange without reveal- ing the source of foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31,1990 and entrepreneurs that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts are also allowed to maintain these accounts. However, enterprises opening such accounts after December 31, 1990 must obtain a permit exempting them from the 100 percent surrender requirement and allowing them to use balances on these accounts freely to finance their activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts: 5At the beginning of 1993, the Czech Republic maintained bilateral payments agreements with Afghan is tan, and since Feb- rua ry 1993, with the Slovak Republic. Provisional agreements exist with all of the former CMEA member countries for pu r- poses of settling outstanding balances and un fu l f i l led trade con- tracts. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 CZECH REPUBLIC (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruna. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts, except for those relating to inheritance, require a permit from the CNB. (2) Foreign currency accounts, in which foreign exchange may be deposited freely, and from which payments may be made, in the Czech Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or entrepreneur. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as crude oil, natural gas, firearms and ammunition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by levies applies to some agricultural products and coal. All imports, including those by individuals, are subject to an ad valorem customs du ty ranging up to 15 percent and a value-added tax of 5 percent or 23 percent. Imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the Gener- alized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction. Resident individuals are required to repatriate foreign exchange acquired abroad, and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account foreign exchange (including gold, with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Kcs 5,000. Resident enterprises and entrepreneurs are normally required to repatriate, without delay, foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal mar- ket natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construc- tion materials). For the two latter groups of prod- ucts, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a cer- tain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Czech resident individuals may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign currency accounts to make invisible pay- ments. In addition, residents are entitled to buy for- eign exchange to travel abroad, up to a maximum amount specified by the CNB (the equivalent of Kcs 7,500 a year for 1992 and 1993). Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organi- zations is subject to different allowances, depend- ing on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to a country with which a reciprocal agreement has been concluded or which does not restrict such transfers to the Czech Repub- lic. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. A special per- mit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers must be authorized by the CNB unless stipulated differently by an intergovernmental agreement. With certain exceptions related to tour- ism, exports and imports of koruna bank notes and their transfer abroad are permitted only with a for- eign exchange license issued by the CNB. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of foreign exchange assets, including foreign cur- rencies, by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises and entrepreneurs may freely obtain suppliers' credits. Financial credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the CNB, and foreign direct invest- ments abroad must be approved by the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. Approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate exports from the Czech Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by nonresidents. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, foreign investors are allowed to repatriate freely the fu ll value of their capital participation and capital gains in the original currency af ter payment of taxes. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (including bullion), within 30 days of acquisition, to commer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 145 cial banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Nonresidents may export . , .L°, ,, . .., . v .1 t inherited gold coins without a license, provided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the coun- try. To export gold bullion, nonresidents must obtain a foreign exchange license. r Changes During 1992 _ . ,. , ._ Prescription of Currency y ^ February 8. Balances outstanding at the end of each month under the clearing accounts arrange- ment with the Slovak Republic exceeding clearing ECU 130 million began to be settled in convertible currency by the fifteenth of the following month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, Ger- many, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Por- tugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Danmarks Nationalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries par- ticipating in the EMS in unlimited amounts at spec- ified intervention rates. On December 31, 1992, these rates were as follows: 100 100 100 Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 1 100 100 100 Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.9143 390.1600 116.3200 10.4511 346.2400 4.3791 5.5645 18.0831 373.0000 111.2000 9.9913 331.0200 3.8842 4.9354 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does intervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates and has an obligation to intervene on the Danish for- eign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. Middle rates (aver- age of buying and selling rates) for 22 foreign cur- rencies (including ECUs); are officially fixed daily and reflect the rates prevailing at the time of the l rThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and I ta ly withdrew on September 17,1992. 2Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 146 fixing. On December 31, 1992, the official rates for the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar were Dkr 387.34 and Dkr 625.55, respectively, per 100 units. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without limitation with respect to the amounts, currencies, or instruments involved. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, stipulates that payments of more than Dkr 60,000 between resi- dents and nonresidents must be reported to Dan- marks Nationalbank for statistical purposes. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited securi- ties abroad, or have entered into contracts with for- eign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1,1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Islands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1,1988. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Exchange control rules on reporting requirements for statistical purposes, on depositing foreign securities, and on holding accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange dealers. For- eign exchange dealers are commercial banks, sav- ings banks, and stockbrokerage companies or other financial institutions, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commercial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 147 banking institutions (correspondent banks). Dan- marks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of foreign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, where required, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Denmark notified the Fund on July 27, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Community (EC) system of export-import licenses has been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non- state-trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or pur- chased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for the waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to South Africa are prohibited. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on directives from the European Community (EC) on capital movements and on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member countries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coins in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coins. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 22 percent. There is no cus- toms duty on imports of gold in bars or coins. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-3.0 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. A fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or $6.00) is charged on transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate forward exchange contracts for commer- cial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On September 19, 1980, Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Djibouti f ranc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dollars. Deposits in U.S. dollars consti- tute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. bouti, but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consump- tion tax, at the rate of 30 percent on luxury goods and 20 percent on all other goods. Certain commod- ities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk prod- ucts and f ru it juice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and salaries paid to individuals and legal entities who, for professional purposes, are not permanent resi- dents of Djibouti. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or out- ward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Under the Investment Code of February 13, 1984, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Imports and Import Payments Changes During 1992 Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Dji- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Foreign Currency Accounts The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7118, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has dele- gated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories partici- pating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARI- COM)2 must be made in the currency of the CARI- COM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made.3 1PThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; per- mission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Dominica. The accounts may be credited only with foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Haiti, Iraq, and South Africa are prohibited, and all imports originating from the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, Albania, Cambodia, China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Imports of specified goods origi- nating outside the Organization of Eastern Carib- bean States (OECS)4 and CARICOM require a license. The Common External Tariff of CARICOM states is applied to all imports. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a commercial bank of docu- mentary evidence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Minis- try of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by the ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business travel- ers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, pro- vided that the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (4) for overseas travel for medi- cal treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of travel documents and a medical cer- tificate stating that the journey is necessary; (5) for 4 The member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 DOMINICA educational expenses, including accommodation, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents residing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or inca- pacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be obtained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval from the Ministry of Finance must also be obtained for outward remit- tances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Earnings of foreign workers and profits/ dividends from foreign direct investment may be remitted after settlement of all tax or other public liabilities. The exportation of Eastern Caribbean bank notes and coins (other than numismatic coins) by resi- dents and nonresidents traveling to destinations outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts pre- scribed by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Haiti, Iraq, and South Africa are pro- hibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory unless the exporter has a for- eign currency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. eign currency account. There is no restriction on the importation of foreign bank notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresi- dents require approval, which is normally granted, subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 per family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any related liabilities. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quanti- ties of gold may be imported for industrial pur- poses only with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from Invisibles Changes During 1992 Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a for- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso. The official rate is set daily on the basis of the previous day's rates in the interbank market in which the rates are determined by supply and demand. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Domini- can Republic in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$ 12.50 and RD$ 12.75, respectively, per US$1. A commission equivalent to 10 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Cen- tral Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 In addi- tion, a commission of 2 percent is charged on sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. The Dominican Republic formally accepted the obligations of ArticleVIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1,1953. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. At the end of 1992, 19 commercial banks (including the state-owned Reserve Bank) were operating in the foreign exchange market. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Goods from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be imported under special letters of credit. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). All payments must be invoiced in U.S. dollars; otherwise, no obliga- tions are imposed on importers, exporters, or other 1 Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum and its derivatives, medicine, and agr icu l tural products are exempt from this com- residents regarding the currency to be used for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports of coal for the use of the electric company and priority imports for public enterprises are transacted through the Central Bank at the official rate. Imports on a document-against- payments basis must be denominated in U.S. dol- lars; for these imports, certification of the use of for- eign currency is required for customs clearance. All other imports are transacted through the free inter- bank market and are subject only to verification of appropriate documentation. Most imports are sub- ject to an exchange commission equivalent to 10 percent of their f.o.b. value. Under the tariff regime (established in 1990), most rates range from 5 percent to 35 percent; the regime had not yet been approved by Congress as of the end of 1992. As part of a Tax Reform Law enacted in May 1992, excise taxes on imports were converted from specific to ad valorem, and the tax rates for imported goods were reduced to seven bands, ranging from 5 percent to 80 percent. Payments for Invisibles All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documenta- tion requirements. Annual profit remittances can- not exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered with the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign exchange to commercial banks upon arrival may reconvert up to 30 percent of the total amount sur- rendered (maximum of up to the equivalent of $5,000) upon departure. The exportation of domes- tic bank notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, includ- ing some food products and animal species, unpro- cessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, products imported under specified bilateral trade 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC agreements are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. With specified exceptions, exporters must sur- render to the Central Bank through the commercial banks the entire proceeds from exports within 30 days of the date of bill of lading. For purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices estab- lished by the Dominican Center for Export Promo- tion for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and dealing in ferronickel exports are exempt from the exchange surrender requirements. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario — CATs) for a value of up to 15 percent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of exports, or up to 25 percent when exports contain a high degree of domestic agricul- tural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully nego- tiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which duties are waived for any imports used in the manufacture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. A percentage of import duties paid on raw mate- rials and component parts used in the production of nontraditional exports is refunded: 90 percent for exports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent for exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent for exports produced in the industrial free trade zone.2 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment without authorization from the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles may be sold in the interbank market, except for pro- ceeds originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards, which must be sold in the Central Bank. The importation of domestic bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresidents. 2 Non trad i t ional exporters, who qua l i fy under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69, are also fu l ly exempted from pay- ments of import duties. However, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19,1978, which created a Direc- torate of Foreign Investment to approve direct investment requests. Such investments must be reg- istered with the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional authorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board authorization. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to borrowings asso- ciated with exports, import substitution, and social projects, such as housing and education. Total financial charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than a certain margin. There are also mini- mum maturity requirements according to the type of financing. Since January 23,1985, the Central Bank has pro- vided foreign exchange for the servicing of public external debt at the market rate; the servicing of pri- vate external debt is effected through the interbank market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments March 20. Several import transactions were trans- ferred to the interbank market, including those related to imports of petroleum products, medi- cines, raw materials for the pharmaceutical indus- try, and basic food items. May 15. A Tax Reform Law was enacted by the Dominican Congress with the following provi- sions: (1) the import surcharge was reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent of the f.o.b. value, and a schedule was established to reduce it to 7 percent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 153 by the end of 1993 and to 3 percent by the end of 1994, and to eliminate it by the end of 1995; (2) imports of some agricultural products, food, fertilizer, petroleum and its derivatives, and medi- cine were exempted from the import surcharge; (3) the excise taxes on imports were converted from specific to ad valorem, and tax rates for imported goods were reduced to seven bands, ranging from 5 percent to 80 percent. The catego- ries of imports subject to the excise taxes, however, remained unchanged, and they included motor vehicles, kitchen products, entertainment goods, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and jew- elry. Vehicles with a cylinder capacity of less than 1,500 cubic centimeters would be subject to a 5 percent excise tax, while vehicles with a cylinder capacity greater than 1,500 cubic centimeters would be subject to excise taxes of up to 80 per- cent. Other consumer durables would be taxed at a rate of 15 percent, while alcoholic beverages, cigars, cigarettes, perfumes and soaps, and carpets and rugs would be taxed at a rate of 30 percent and jewelry at the rate of 80 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds March 20. The surrender requirement for pro- ceeds from exports from the free trade zones was suspended. Capital April 2. Financial institutions were authorized to accept savings and time deposits in foreign currency. October 23. Reciprocal Credit Agreements within the framework of the LAIA were concluded. Inter- mediary commercial banks were required to deposit, in an account abroad authorized by the Central Bank and at the time of each transaction, an amount equivalent to 100 percent of the foreign exchange required for commercial operations by their clients (importers). When the operations are covered by foreign exchange from the official mar- ket, the Central Bank will debit the peso (RD$) account of the commercial bank in the amount of the transaction at the current exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are four exchange rates: (1) the official rate of S/ 390 per US$1, which is used only for accounting pur- poses by the Central Bank of Ecuador; (2) the Central Bank's intervention market rate of S/. 1,700 per US$1, which is applied to public sector exports; (3) the Cen- tral Bank's intervention market rate of S/2,000 per US$1, which is applied to foreign credits disbursed to or guaranteed by the public sector, to public sector purchases of foreign exchange, and to transactions of private oil companies; and (4) the free market rate. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates in the free market were S/.l,843.5 and S/.l,846.2, respec- tively, per US$1. Export proceeds and other foreign exchange receipts required to be surrendered before September 3, 1992 are bought by the Central Bank at the intervention rate that prevailed at the time the sur- render should have been made. The Central Bank is authorized to intervene in the free market and to issue bonds denominated in foreign currency. In the public sector segment of the intervention market, the Central Bank is authorized to purchase foreign exchange proceeds from the following trans- actions: the f.o.b. value of all public sector exports; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disbursements; foreign exchange bal- ances on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank that are considered to be in excess of the foreign exchange requirements of each entity; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange derived from payments of the following operations in the public sector segment of the intervention mar- ket: the c. & f. value of public sector imports; the transfer of surpluses of foreign oil companies operat- ing in Ecuador; purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amor- tization in foreign currency of the public sector; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. In the intervention market for the private sector, the Central Bank is authorized to buy 100 percent of the f.o.b. value of all private sector export proceeds and 100 percent of the domestic value added of ex- ports through authorized maquila programs.1 Twice a 1 These programs include a temporary duty-free import scheme for goods used in export production. The role of the intervention market for the private sector, however, is limited because the pri- vate sector can buy and sell its foreign exchange in the free market. week, the Central Bank determines the maximum amount of foreign exchange available (the limit of 90 percent of export proceeds from the private sector was raised to 100 percent in December 1989). It sells this amount for the payment of the c. & f. value of private sector imports; for the foreign exchange re- quired by the national press and by students abroad who have obtained financing from the Ecuadoran In- stitute for Education Loans; and for the servicing of loans granted by multilateral agencies and govern- ments or their agencies to Ecuadoran financial insti- tutions in the private sector to finance private investment projects. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted to the Committee for Foreign Exchange Sales (Comite de Venta de Divisas) through authorized banks, financial companies, or professional organiza- tions (Federaciones Nacionales de Camaras), none of which may submit requests for more than 20 percent of the total amount offered at each biweekly session. Requests for foreign exchange for import payments may be presented only on the basis of import per- mits granted at least 60 days before the session. Requests are satisfied according to the chronological order of the date of issuance of the import permits. The amount of foreign exchange received by each participating institution is determined on a pro rata basis; the rate is calculated on the basis of the ratio of the total amount offered to the total amount requested. Under transitional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to provide foreign exchange at the inter- vention market rate for the following payments: imports for which permits were granted before August 11,1986; the redemption of foreign currency stabilization bonds; the servicing of the private sec- tor external debt for which the foreign exchange was sold to the Central Bank before August 11, 1986; profit remittances and capital repatriation generated by foreign investments for which the foreign cur- rency was sold to the Central Bank before August 11, 1986; and expenses incurred abroad by students and handicapped persons for which a contract was approved by the Central Bank before August 11, 1986. To meet obligations arising from import per- mits granted before August 11, 1986, the Central Bank is authorized to issue foreign currency stabili- zation bonds, provided the countervalue in sucres has been deposited with the Central Bank and all the requirements for payment abroad have been ful- 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 155 filled. The maturity of the bonds runs from the date of issue. The Central Bank has issued four stabiliza- tion bonds, each amounting to 25 percent of its obli- gation, which carry an interest rate equal to the three-month LIBOR (or equivalent rate in non-U.S. dollar currencies). Foreign exchange transactions carried out by the Central Bank for the oil sector are subject to a 1 percent service charge. Most private sector bor- rowing abroad that is registered at the Central Bank, except for loans with a maturity exceeding two years, is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. Loans with a maturity longer than two years are exempt from this tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from August 31,1970. Administration of Control Public sector foreign exchange transactions, along with those related to the exploration, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives, are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank. Private sector foreign exchange trans- actions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports must be registered with the Central Bank to guaran- tee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Import licenses granted by the Central Bank are required. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Hungary Cuba, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. take place through bilat- eral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, or Venezuela must be made within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries. List I comprises priority goods (the "Special" Group), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semiessential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods). List II covers luxury goods. Imports of all goods not included on these two lists are prohib- ited, primarily to protect industry, the environment, and health. Imports of antiques and certain items related to health and national security are also pro- hibited. Certain imports require prior authorization from government ministries or agencies. The maximum tariff rate on most imports from out- side the Andean Pact is 20 percent. The tariff regime consists of four rates—5, 10, 15, and 20 percent; the duty date on automobiles is 37 percent. All imports are subject to a 3 percent service charge. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports except books, newspapers, periodicals, printed music, medicines, and spare parts for machin- ery and automotive vehicles valued at $1,500 f.o.b. or less. In addition, the State Petroleum Corporation (PETROECUADOR) may, without a license, import sup- plies, materials, and equipment during emergencies. Import licenses are issued free of charge irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that 80 percent of the import tax has been paid, prior ministerial authoriza- tion (when needed) has been obtained, and insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. Certain agricultural crops, milled flour, and cooking oil are granted special protection through the licensing process. All private sector imports are subject to the 10 percent value- added tax, and all public and private sector imports are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c. & f. value. There is a temporary duty-free import scheme for inputs used in export production. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, including interest on public debt, are transacted in the interven- tion market of the Central Bank. Other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrangement for the refinancing of private exter- nal debt involves different implicit exchange rates arising from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates apply to the refinancing of private external cred- its contracted or endorsed by the domestic financial system or directly by the private sector and to the interest payments on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank under the refinancing scheme of 1983 (Resolu- tion No. 1202). Interest, commissions, and other finan- cial charges on foreign loans to petroleum companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 ECUADOR may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percentage points more than the interest rates in the creditor country. The remittance abroad of dividends and profits is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of $25 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are taxed at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are issued freely at no cost but are subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or defini- tive (with a validity of 90 days). A list of prohibited exports and a list of exports subject to quota ("exportable surplus") are reviewed quarterly by the relevant ministries. All goods not on these lists may be exported freely. All export proceeds must be sur- rendered to authorized financial entities or the Cen- tral Bank no later than (1) 15 days from the date of shipment for exports against cash payment; (2) 30 days from the date of shipment for bananas, pro- vided that sale was made on an installment basis; (3) 60 days from the date of shipment for fish and shrimp, provided that the sale was made on an installment basis; (4) 75 days from the date of ship- ment for other sea products, coffee, and cocoa; (5) 90 days from the date of shipment for other pri- mary products, provided that the sale was made on an installment basis; and (6) 180 days from the date of shipment for products not covered in (l)-(5), pro- vided that the sale was made on an installment basis. Those who disregard the above surrender require- ments are subject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. Authorized financial entities may pur- chase foreign exchange in anticipation of future exports within a maximum period of 90 days before the projected date of the export settlement. In November 1991, a scheme that compensated export- ers for sucre devaluations occurring between the time of foreign exchange surrender and export ship- ment was eliminated. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transac- tions. However, barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be reg- istered with the Central Bank and are subject to specific limitations. Exporters may deduct up to 15 percent from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of consular fees and commis- sions paid abroad. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30 percent of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish prod- ucts, cocoa, and semifinished products of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly sur- rendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petro- leum exports is made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. All crude oil exports are subject to a tax of S/. 5 per barrel; in addition, a tax of $0.05 per barrel is paid on crude oil exported through the pipeline. In December 1992, Ecuador withdrew from fu ll membership in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible receipts of the public sector, which are transacted in the inter- vention market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market, except capital in the petro- leum sector and loan disbursements to the public sec- tor, which must be transacted through the intervention market. Unless specifically stated, new foreign direct investments do not require prior autho- rization. Foreign equity capital ownership in the banking and insurance sector is limited to 49 percent. Authorization from the Ministry of Industry, Com- merce, Integration, and Fisheries is required when foreign investment involves a stock transfer from a resident to a nonresident or between nonresidents. Authorization from this ministry is also needed for new investments in public and financial services; the latter also require the authorization of the Superin- tendent of Banks. Repatriations of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market for those investments made through this market. All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the Government or official entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the Monetary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. A request for such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 157 authorization must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Monetary Board, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board consid- ers the effects that the loan and the related invest- ment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the Gen- eral Development Plan or receive a favorable ruling from the National Council for Development (CON- ADE), and at least 20 percent of the total cost of the project must be covered by domestic funds. This requirement does not apply to loans granted by international organizations or national development agencies. New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sec- tor, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be authorized by and registered with the Central Bank. Gold The private sector is authorized to buy and sell gold in the international and domestic markets. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 4. The sucre was devalued by 1 percent against the U.S. dollar. The rate of weekly adjust- ment of S/. 3.5 per US$1 remained unchanged. May 29. The sucre was devalued by 4 percent against the U.S. dollar. The rate of weekly adjust- ment of S/. 3.5 per US$1 remained unchanged. September 3. The sucre was devalued by 35 percent and pegged temporarily at S/. 2,000 per US$1, and the weekly devaluations were suspended. Special exchange rates were introduced for public sector transactions. The exchange rate for public sector exports and loan disbursements to public entities was set at S/. 1,700 per US$1. October 29. The Central Bank was authorized to intervene in the free interbank exchange market and to issue bonds denominated in foreign currency. November 26. The official buying and selling rates in the intervention market were set at S/. 1,700 and S/. 2,000, respectively, per US$1. The intervention rate for loan disbursements to the public sector, for public sector purchases of foreign exchange, and for oil company transactions was adjusted to S/. 2,000 per US$1. A rate of S/. 1,700 per US$1 was main- tained for public sector exports. Imports and Import Payments February 7. The ban on automobile imports was lifted (Monetary Board Regulation No. 766/92), and a 37 percent tariff was imposed on imported cars. May 23. Maximum tariffs on imports from outside the Andean Pact were reduced to 20 percent. The tariff regime was modified to only four rates: (1) 5 percent for List I, special group, products; (2) 10 percent for List I, group A, products; (3) 15 percent for List I, group B, products; and (4) 20 percent for List II prod- ucts. The 37 percent tariff on automobile imports was maintained. September 30. An agreement on the reciprocal elim- ination of tariffs, effective on October 1, 1992, was signed with Colombia in the framework of the Andean Pact. Exports and Export Proceeds September 3. Fifteen percent of private export receipts was required to be surrendered against a non- interest-bearing, U.S. dollar-denominated exchange certificate, with the option of redeeming the certificate in dollars at maturity (180 days) or selling it in the sec- ondary market. October 14. The option of early surrender of export receipts to the Central Bank was eliminated. November 26. Private sector exporters were permit- ted to sell their export receipts in the free market. November 26. The option of early surrender of export receipts was reinstated but would be allowed only through authorized financial enti- ties. Export proceeds or other foreign exchange receipts that were to be surrendered before Sep- tember 3, 1992 would be bought by the Central Bank at the intervention rate prevailing at the time the surrender should have taken place. Export proceeds or other foreign exchange receipts that were to be surrendered between September 3 and November 25, 1992 would be bought by the Cen- tral Bank at S/ 1,700 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. December 31. Ecuador withdrew from OPEC. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 31. An agreement on the reciprocal elimi- nation of tariffs, effective February 1, 1993, was signed with Venezuela in the framework of the Andean Pact. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. Under the exchange reform of February 1991, non- bank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to oper- ate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks), including purchases and sales on their own accounts. In addition, autho- rized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transaction except transfers to and from the country, on the accounts of their bank or nonbank customers. Since November 28, 1991, a unified free market exchange rate has been applied to all transactions. Since March 12, 1992, nonbank foreign exchange dealers have been permit- ted to buy and sell foreign exchange for their own accounts. These transactions must be conducted through the accounts maintained by dealers with authorized banks in Egypt. A special exchange rate of LE 1.30 per US$1 is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 per US$1 is used for the liquida- tion of balances related to past bilateral payments agreements. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transactions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the Cen- tral Bank of Egypt is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is established annu- ally for the central and local governments. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transac- tions, within the framework of a general authoriza- tion, without obtaining specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade formulates external trade policy. The monop- oly of the public sector over the exportation and importation of certain products has been abolished. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Payments may be made in any convertible cur- rency, including to the debit or credit of the appro- priate free account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) in Egyptian pounds or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the for- eign exchange regulations. Settlements with Sudan, the only country with which Egypt maintains an operative bilateral payments agreement, are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Payments not covered by the agreement may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal dues accounts, advance payment Canal dues accounts, or free accounts in foreign currency Canal dues accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances may be transferred abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements, the indem- nity agreements concluded with certain countries and Canal dues accounts, there are three types of accounts: free accounts, D accounts, and noncon- vertible capital accounts. Free accounts in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Govern- ment, public authorities, and public sector entities. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bank notes, for- eign currency equivalents from funds transferred from previously existing free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign bank notes to the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. D accounts may be opened in the name of any res- ident of a country (currently only Sudan) with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agreement. These accounts are largely historical. They are maintained in the name of a resident of a country 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 159 with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agree- ment. They are usually credited with transfers under the respective payments agreements. Bal- ances are used to make local payments allowed under the bilateral agreements, including for imports from Egypt. Currently, outstanding bal- ances on these accounts are minimal. Nonconvertible capital accounts may be credited with capital payments not remittable under the for- eign exchange regulations to foreigners living out- side Egypt. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from account holders. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by account holders. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered, up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to free accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold foreign exchange retention accounts and capital and working accounts. Foreign exchange retention accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from certain exports of goods and invisible receipts. Public sector companies may transfer these funds to other public sector compa- nies within the same sector or sell them to the authorized banks at the free market rate. Private sector exporters may debit these accounts for visi- ble and invisible payments related to their eco- nomic activity or sell the exchange in the free market but may not transfer these funds to free accounts. Holders of export retention accounts in the private sector are entitled to use up to 25 percent of the proceeds of their exports, without submitting documents, to finance travel expenses for the exporter or his employees, to make other invisible payments related to the account holder's activity, and to settle repatriation requirements. Unused balances in retention accounts owned by the public sector (earned from invisible transac- tions), unless exempt, must be sold periodically to the banking system. If the balances in the retention accounts owned by the public sector entities origi- nate from proceeds from invisible transactions, unused balances must be surrendered at the end of June and December. Capital and working accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 of July 1989. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free bank market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Imports and Import Payments The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade for- mulates long-term export and import policies and prepares indicative annual export and import plans. Both public and private entities are allowed to trade with countries with which Egypt maintains a bilateral payment agreement (at present, only Sudan). Imports by the Government are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange budget. All imports financed by the Central Bank are effected at the free market rate, with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agreements, which are effected at a special, more appreciated rate. Import payments in foreign exchange by the pri- vate sector are effected through the commercial banks, licensed nonbank dealers, Port Said, or through importers' own foreign exchange resources. All products may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of those that are prohibited. Certain goods (e.g., imports financed with bilateral and multilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufacturers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are exempt from the negative list, and items on the negative list may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy. For customs purposes, products are classified into 12 groups, on which tariff rates range from 5 percent to 100 percent (with several exceptions). The weighted average rate was 18.5 percent in 1992. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for all invisible payments by the Government and the public authorities, and the public sector, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations. Commercial banks and other agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange may sell without restriction foreign currencies for payments for invisibles to indi- viduals, private and public sector units and compa- nies, and companies established under the domestic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 EGYPT investment regime, in accordance with the provi- sions of the Investment Law. Only Egyptian nationals, foreigners who have lived in the country continuously for five years, and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for ten years may, under certain conditions, purchase air- line tickets (one-way or round-trip, originating in Egypt) in Egyptian pounds. All others must pur- chase tickets with convertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds converted at the commercial bank exchange rate. Travelers may not take out more than LE 100 in domestic bank notes but are permitted to take out foreign bank notes and other instruments of payment in foreign currency with- out limitation. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from a limited number of products required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be effected without license. Foreign trade committees may establish export plans for certain products. Exports of cotton, rice, and petroleum are no longer a public sector monop- oly. Proceeds from these exports must be repatri- ated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and, in any case, within not more than five years of the date of shipment. Proceeds from all other exports must be repatriated within one year of the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fu l ly retained in foreign exchange retention accounts. Proceeds from exports by both the private and public sector to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing Egyptians and foreigners who are carrying gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that they exchanged for- eign exchange that is equivalent to the excess value of the purchase in the free markets; the correspond- ing limit on excess value in respect of purchases left behind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (provided that they are exported within three months of the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earned abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Govern- ment, public authorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in free accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system. However, hotels are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in their retention accounts. Hotels operating under Law No. 230 are allowed to retain all of their for- eign exchange earnings in their working accounts. With the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, hotels other than those operating under Law No. 230 may also retain an additional 15 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to meet their debt-service obligations. Travel agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 230; Misr Travel is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be approved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 100 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts of foreign exchange. Capital Transfers of funds by foreign nationals leaving the country permanently, by emigrants, and by accrued alimony beneficiaries living abroad (within the limits prescribed by the pertinent legal provi- sions) are not restricted. Imports and exports of securities and transfers related to their purchases or sales must be effected through authorized banks. Securities dealers registered at the stock markets of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to act as inter- mediaries in property transfer operations related to these securities both inside and outside Egypt. With the approval of the responsible authorities and in conformity with the prevailing laws and regula- tions, foreign exchange may be released in order to transfer the amounts requested by government units, public agencies, and public sector companies to pay for investments abroad and to pay their share of capital in foreign exchange projects inside the country. The total cash assets from estates accruing to for- eigners living abroad may be deposited in capital nontransferable accounts opened with authorized banks. The net shares of the heirs of foreigners living abroad may be deposited in nontransferable capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 161 accounts. Authorized banks may pay from such non- transferable capital accounts legal expenses accruing against the holder of accounts opened in the names of natural or juridical persons up to a maximum of LE 10,000 each calendar year. In addition to the set- tlement of expenses and fees for local services and government claims, up to LE 20,000 each calendar year may be paid from these accounts to settle expenses related to the activities or stay of employ- ees of juridical persons in Egypt. Payments for real estate and land that foreigners are allowed to own must be made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from sales of property owned in Egypt by foreigners or their heirs must be depos- ited in a special capital account in the name of the foreign seller at an authorized bank. The authorized bank may transfer funds abroad from the account, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of foreign exchange units previously transferred and surrendered in return for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5 percent of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property was sold; afterwards, up to a maximum of LE 50,000 a year may be transferred. The ratio of foreign currency liabilities to foreign currency assets, or vice versa, of authorized com- mercial banks is subject to a maximum limit of 105 percent, and the difference between foreign cur- rency liabilities and foreign currency assets is lim- ited to 15 percent of individual banks' capital. The limit on nonbank dealers' open foreign exchange provisions was raised to 15 percent from 10 percent of capital on December 15, 1992, subject to certain maximum amounts. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. The importation of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is regulated. The exportation of gold and silver fab- rics may be permitted, provided that the sales pro- ceeds are repatriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out valuables for their personal use within a limit of LE 2,000 a per- son, with proof that valuables have been shipped to or brought in by the traveler. Departing Egyptian nationals and foreign residents are permitted to take out their personal jewelry valued at up to LE 20,000, with a guarantee acceptable to the cus- toms authorities and provided they repatriate it within five years. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 12. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers were allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange for their own accounts. These transactions are to be conducted through the accounts maintained by dealers with authorized banks in Egypt. Imports and Import Payments August 7. The advanced import deposit require- ment was abolished. Payments for Invisibles May 27. The regulation governing the amount of foreign exchange travelers may take out was abolished. Capital December 15. The limit on nonbank foreign exchange dealers' open (foreign exchange) posi- tions was raised to $200,000 from $150,000 for each LE 1 million of capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador maintains a unified floating exchange rate system under which commercial banks and exchange houses are free to purchase and sell foreign exchange at rates determined by supply and demand conditions. The Central Reserve Bank establishes daily exchange rates applicable to its transactions with the public sector, to foreign exchange surrendered by coffee exporters to the Central Reserve Bank or used for oil imports, and to the calculation of tax obligations. This exchange rate is the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses for the previous working day. In addition, the Cen- tral Reserve Bank may purchase or sell foreign exchange to commercial banks and exchange houses at the rate prevailing in the market at the time of the transaction. On December 30, 1992, the Central Reserve Bank's buying and selling exchange rates were C8.50 and C8.67, respec- tively, per US$1; the average buying rate of com- mercial banks was C 8.49 per US$1; and the average buying rate of exchange houses was C 8.50 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official, commercial banking, or exchange house sectors. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Reserve Bank in accordance with its Organic Law. Authorization for all private sector imports and payments for invisibles is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports of a number of products require licenses issued by CENTREX (Centro de Tramites de Exporta- ciones). The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues per- mits without restriction to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Both residents and nonresidents may maintain deposit accounts in foreign currencies with autho- rized banks. Balances on these accounts may be sold to the commercial banks or used to make payments abroad without restriction. Transfers of funds between these accounts are also not restricted. The commercial banks are required to submit periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank on the use of such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, fuel oil, asphalt, propane and butane gas, methane gas, cloth and jute sacks, sugar, and molasses. Authorization for private sector import pay- ments is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Payments for public sector imports and settlement of official lines of credit are made by the Central Reserve Bank after deposits have been made in local currency to cover the full value of credit. Import tariffs range from 5 percent to 20 percent, with luxury items subject to rates of up to 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles Restrictions on payments for invisibles of a per- sonal nature (that is, medical treatment, study abroad, and foreign travel) were eliminated in December 1990, and the authority to grant foreign exchange for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for salt, gasoline (except for airplanes), gray cement, kerosene, asphalt and its derivatives, propane and butane gas, diesel fuel, sugar, and molasses in order to ensure adequate local supplies of these items. CENTREX issues certif- 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 163 icates of origin and health when foreign importers require them and the f.o.b. value of exports exceeds $5,000. All exports, irrespective of value, must be registered. Export proceeds from coffee must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within 40 days of the issuance of the export registration certificate. Pro- ceeds from exports of all other goods must be sur- rendered to the commercial banks within 120 days of the issuance of the export registration certificate if the amount of the transaction exceeds $25,000. Proceeds from exports amounting to less than $25,000 may be surrendered to exchange houses. Proceeds from exports to member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) must be surrendered to exchange houses irrespective of the amount of the transaction and the currency used. Exporters of nontraditional products to markets outside Central America receive a drawback of taxes paid on imported raw materials in the form of certificates equivalent to 6 percent of the f.o.b. value of the exports. The certificates may be used to pay direct or indirect taxes. Since December 1992, proceeds from exports of coffee have been subject to an income tax, which replaces the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized commercial bank or exchange house. Capital Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be reg- istered with the Ministry of Economy but are not restricted. Outward remittance of interest and amortization on external loans may be made with- out restriction. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having for- eign resident shareholders. This decree defines for- eign residents as persons residing in El Salvador who are not citizens of one of the five member countries of the CAMC. Gold Gold coins in denominations of C 2,500 have been issued as legal tender. Residents and nonresi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins for numis- matic purposes. Gold coins in denominations of C 25, C 20 C 100, and <£ 200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. These coins are not available for sale and exist only for numismatic purposes in the Central Reserve Bank's collection. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of gold for other than monetary uses are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their members and for use in dentistry. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 18. The Central Reserve Bank began to establish the daily exchange rate that would apply to transac- tions between the Central Reserve Bank and the pub- lic sector, to foreign exchange proceeds surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank by coffee exporters, to for- eign exchange used for oil imports, and to the calcula- tion of tax obligations. The exchange rate would be the simple average of the exchange rates set by com- mercial banks and exchange houses during the previ- ous three working days. December 2. The Central Reserve Bank began to calculate its official exchange rate using the simple average of the exchange rates set by commercial banks and exchange houses during the previous working day. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The maximum import tariff was low- ered from 30 percent to 20 percent except for some luxury items, which would remain at 25 percent or 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles March 1. Restrictions on the amount of foreign currency travelers may take out were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds November 26. The rate of drawback of taxes paid in the form of certificates on imported raw materi- als by exporters of nontraditional products to mar- kets outside Central America was reduced from the equivalent of 8 percent to the equivalent of 6 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports (Decree Law No. 381). December 17. The export tax on coffee exports was replaced by an income tax on export earnings (Decree Law No. 422). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 EL SALVADOR Proceeds from Invisibles tial March 1. Exchange houses were authorized to purchase proceeds from invisibles. r r P . j March 1. Exchange licenses for outward capital transfers were eliminated, and outward remittances of interest and amortization on external loans were no longer subject to the prior approval of the Cen- tral Reserve Bank. Authorization from the Central Reserve Bank would no longer be required for the contracting of foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year and from the Ministry of Economy for the contracting of foreign loans with a maturity exceed- ing one year. April 1. The requirement to surrender to the mon- etary authorities all inward capital transfers (including direct portfolio investments and foreign direct investments) was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 per F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agen- cies for official missions, and payments of reinsur- ance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equatorial Guinea's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its over- seas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers of more than CFAF 500,000 to countries of the Operations Account Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are con- sidered foreign countries. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) of the l rThe CFA f ranc circulating in Equa to r ial Guinea is issued by the Bank of Central A f r ican States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Because Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are for- eign accounts in francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) may be credited freely to foreign accounts in francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports valued at more than CFAF 50,000 are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions whose value exceeds CFAF 50,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of uninterrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declara- tion but are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents travel- ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip; any foreign exchange remaining after their return to Equatorial Guinea must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 350,000 in bills a trip. Travelers must present certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional alloca- tions may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer abroad of the salary of a foreigner working in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted upon pre- sentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea temporarily, payments of insurance premiums up to CFAF 50,000 to foreign countries are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the Operations Account Area may take out up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out bank notes and coins up to the amount they declared on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if they made no declaration. All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchan- dise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are freely permitted.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. They must have the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is not normally given because there are no industrial users in Equa- 2 Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of for- eign securities in Equa tor ial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of d ra f t ing legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agr icu l tura l, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and indus tr ial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 167 torial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance; authorization is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exemP* imPorts of §old are subJect to customs ec ara on' Changes During 1992 NO significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA1 (Position as of January 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Estonia is the Kroon.2 Since the introduction of a currency board system, the con- vertibility of the kroon has been guaranteed by the Bank of Estonia (BOE); the BOE exchanges kroon bank notes and reserve deposits of commercial banks with the BOE into deutsche mark and vice versa at the exchange rate of EEK 8 per DM1. This conversion is guaranteed for all valid current inter- national transactions. Transactions in convertible currencies are freely handled by the commercial banks.3 The commercial banks are free to set their own exchange rates, as long as the spread between the buying and selling rates, including commissions, does not exceed 7 percent..4 Since November 24, 1992, trade in cash rubles and in other convertible currencies originally prohibited at the request of the Russian authorities following the currency reform has been taking place legally at border posts and certain other locations. There is not yet a well-developed interbank mar- ket in foreign exchange, although banks are free to buy and sell among themselves. An auction market was set up in late 1991 and serves primarily as a forum for trading rubles on account for dollars, deutsche mark, and kroon. Administration of Control International transactions are governed by the For- eign Currency Law of January 26,1993. The authority to issue and enforce foreign exchange regulations is vested with the BOE. Import and export controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance. l rThe Republic of Estonia became a member of the IMF on May 25,1992. 2 The kroon replaced the ruble on June 20, 1992 in the context of a currency board. 3 When a commercial bank is forced to transact in currencies other than deutsche mark owing to regulations regarding the banks7 "open positions" in foreign exchange, the BOE will also exchange other currencies for the kroon. This service is available only to the commercial banks. 4 Before November 1992, the buying and selling rates of the commercial banks were not permitted to deviate from the BOE's published central rates (which are derived from Bundesbank rates) by more than 3 percent. Since November 1992, the com- mercial banks have been free to set their own central rates according to market forces, subect only to the limit on the spread. Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts maintained by the BOE with the Central Bank of Russia. The commercial banks in Estonia are permitted to open their own correspondent accounts with counterpart commercial banks in the Russian Federation. According to these agreements, enterprises and commercial banks can transact with their counterparts in other states of the former U.S.S.R. through accounts with their respective cen- tral banks. Balances accrued in these accounts may be used freely by their holders, to purchase either goods or services in the country concerned. There are no credit facilities associated with these arrangements. Settlements with countries with which Estonia maintains bilateral payments agree- ments are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Since November 1992, the BOE has been encour- aging enterprises and banks to effect payments associated with trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. directly through commercial banks in these countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Enterprises are permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with foreign and domestic banks with the permission of the BOE. As a rule, the BOE grants permission to enterprises that have been in operation for at least one year and have a foreign exchange turnover of at least EEK 1 million over the previous six-month period. These accounts may be credited with all receipts from abroad in convertible currencies and may be debited for import and other payments to nonresidents. Imports and Exports There are no quotas or licensing requirements for imports. 5At the end of 1992, Estonia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, and Uzbekistan. It also maintained bilateral trade agreements with Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Tajikistan, Turk- menistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Free trade agreements excluding agricultural products were concluded with Finland, Norway, and Sweden. A nonpreferential trade agreement excluding textile products was maintained with the EC. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 169 At present, only two goods are subject to tariffs— fur and fur goods at 16 percent and automobiles at 10 percent. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco prod- ucts are subject to excise taxes, levied at point of entry by the customs authority, at the following rates: wine, 20 percent; vodka, 100 percent; and raw tobacco and cigarettes, 40 percent. In addition to these tariffs, imports are subject to a 0.5 percent ad valorem fee to cover the cost of administrative pro- cessing. Imports are subject to an 18 percent value- added tax, which is also levied on domestically pro- duced goods. Exports of shale oil, clay, and quartz require a license. Exports of the following products are sub- ject to a tax: works of art, 100 percent; rapeseed oil, 100 percent; and ferrous and nonferrous metals, 5 percent to 25 percent. Enterprises are required to repatriate export pro- ceeds and sell them to an authorized bank at the market exchange rate. The repatriation requirement period is two months for export proceeds accruing to overseas accounts and two days for those accru- ing to domestic foreign exchange accounts. Enter- prises are allowed to retain foreign exchange for longer periods if they can show that import pay- ments must be made within two working days. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles A regulation regarding documentary proof of travel for purposes of administering exchange allowances for individuals and enterprises exists but has not been enforced by authorities since the kroon was introduced. There are no regulations governing other payments for invisibles. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to proceeds from exports. The importation and exportation of domes- tic bank notes are not restricted. Capital Capital account transactions, except for the repatriation of capital by foreign investors, must be approved by the BOE. Foreign direct invest- ments are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Economy. Gold At present, international and domestic trade in gold is subject to the licensing requirement admin- istered by the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br5 .00 per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 percent selling. In addition, dealers are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own accounts of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These com- missions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers must have the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be car- ried out through authorized dealers under the con- trol of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange pro- ceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a freely convertible foreign currency or in any other accept- able foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Depos- its to these accounts can be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad, and transfers between nonresident accounts do not require prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransfera- ble birr accounts for payments of local expenses. Joint ventures may be permitted to open foreign currency accounts or transferable or nontransfera- ble birr accounts to purchase raw materials, equip- ment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, docu- mentary evidence of the entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Department. In general, these accounts may be replenished only af ter the docu- ments have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents maintained with authorized banks are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). No resi- dent Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which can be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applications for exchange licenses are conditional upon the provi- sion of satisfactory information on costs and pay- ment terms and the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 171 exchange is not made available for a specified group of imported goods (including alcoholic bev- erages and certain durable consumer goods) that are considered nonessential or for which domestic products can be substituted. Imports financed with foreign exchange from external sources (franco valuta system) are not subject to a license. Imports of cars and other vehicles require prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Transport and Communi- cations, and authorization is readily granted without restriction if the imports are financed with foreign exchange balances held abroad. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Certain imports (about one hundred items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' cred- its requires prior approval of the terms and condi- tions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment. All imports are subject to a general (ad valorem) sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transac- tions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Br 300 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the jour- ney is made for business purposes; for tourism, per- sons 18 years of age and over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 500 a year. Students are allowed for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 1,200 to study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals with depen- dents pursuing higher studies at accredited institu- tions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses, subject to approval by the Commission for Higher Education. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health, residents may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to Br 24,155 for medical treatment and travel abroad. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are also prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Control- ler and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a per- mit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, their destination, and their value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corpora- tion. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Con- troller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate cur- rency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of raw hides and skins are regu- lated or prohibited until the needs of local factories are met. Exports of coffee are subject to a tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-exporta- tion is subject to authorization, except in the case of temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, prevent an unwarranted accumu- lation of external debt, and keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 ETHIOPIA All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities estab- lishes the evidence of receipt that is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropri- ate documentation, foreign businessmen with non- registered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethiopia but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under Council of State Special Decree No. 11/1989 (of July 5, 1989), investments made under the Council of State Spe- cial Decree No. 17/1990 (of May 19, 1990), and under Proclamation No. 15/1992 (of May 25,1992). Transfers by emigrants who have operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Foreign investors are permitted to hold a major- ity share in a joint venture, except in certain sectors: precious metals, public utilities, telecommunica- tions, banking and insurance, transport, and trade in selected products deemed essential to the econ- omy by law. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of Investment; a mini- mum of 25 percent of share capital must be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects and for up to three years for major extensions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemp- tion from customs duties and other specified import levies. Proceeds from the liquidation of a joint venture (as well as dividends received from the activities of a joint venture and payments received from the sale or transfer of shares) can be remitted abroad in convertible currency without restriction. A joint venture may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments in respect of debt contracted and fees or royalties in respect of tech- nology transfer agreements. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed- term deposit, but may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the per- mission of the National Bank. In addition, they need prior approval from the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspon- dents, borrow funds abroad, or accept deposits in foreign currency Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless spe- cifically authorized by the Minister of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Development Corpo- ration to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The birr was devalued by 58.6 percent in U.S. dollar terms to Br 5.00 per US$1. Exports and Export Proceeds January 30. The importation of goods on a franco valuta basis was further liberalized (Council of Min- isters Regulation No. 1/1992). December 15. All export taxes and duties on prod- ucts other than coffee were eliminated. Capital May 25. The Proclamation to Provide for the Encouragement, Expansion and Coordination of Investment No. 15/1992 repealing the Joint Ven- ture Proclamation No. 32/1989, State Special Decree No. 17/1990 on Investment, Issuance of Licenses (Council of Ministers Regulation No. 7/ 1990), and Participation of Foreign Investors (Council of Ministers Regulation No. 10/1990) was published. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket consisting of the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The weights in the formula are normally reviewed every two years; the most recent revision was made in 1991. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji on the basis of quota- tions for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1992, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.5723 per US$1. The Reserve Bank provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange facilities are provided by authorized deal- ers for trade transactions for forward periods of up to six months. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 4,1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Planning, for timber by the Ministry of For- estry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Primary Industries and Cooperatives. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji dollars through an external account or in any foreign currency.1 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. A nonresident2 may open and operate an exter- nal account in Fiji dollars or a foreign currency account with an authorized dealer without specific approval from the Reserve Bank. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on the account, with payments from other external accounts, with the proceeds of sales of foreign cur- rency or foreign coins by the account holder, and with Fiji bank notes that the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an external account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Exporters may retain up to 10 percent of proceeds from exports in foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds for import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license; imports of seed potatoes, butter, canned fish, rice, milk, petroleum products, and coffee in any form require a specific license. A wide range of consumer goods are imported by national coopera- tive societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. The importation of a few commodities from all sources is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance pay- ments of up to F$10,000 for all imports, provided that the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the advance payment is made. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived, or intends to continue living, in Fiji for at least three years. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 Payments for Invisibles FIJI Payments for invisibles are permitted under a delegated authority to authorized dealers up to specific limits, as follows: (1) family maintenance expenses, F$4,000 a year; (2) subscription payments for clubs, societies, trade organizations, etc., F$l,000 an application; (3) travel allowances, F$4,000 an applicant a trip; (4) payments of royalties, commis- sions, patents, brokerage, and copyrights, F$l0,000 an application; and (5) gift remittances, F$500 a donor a year. The use of credit cards for travel- related expenses is not restricted, except for a limit on the use of credit cards for shopping of F$l,000 a trip; in addition, F$400 a month may be withdrawn in cash. Emigrants are allowed to transfer, af ter one year abroad, the full amount of the current year's dividends/profits earned on assets left in Fiji. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is not required to make the following payments if they are accompanied by supporting documentary proof: (1) medical treatment; (2) wage payments by ship- ping companies to foreign crew members, up to F$20,000 per application; (3) advertising fees, up to F$10,000 per application; and (4) payments of charges for movie film rental and news services. Amounts exceeding the established limits may be granted with the approval of the Reserve Bank upon presentation of documents certifying that the pay- ments are for bona fide purposes. Nonresident-owned companies must obtain per- mission from the Reserve Bank to transfer divi- dends abroad. Under the present policy, remittance of the current year's profits and two years' retained earnings that have not previously been remitted is allowed. The remittance abroad of rent accruing on properties owned by emigrants is permitted as part of transfers of F$25,000 an emigrant is allowed to make every six months (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of export-licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value of more than F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. At least 90 percent of export proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as proceeds are received; up to 10 percent of the proceeds may be kept in foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or a foreign bank abroad with approval from the Reserve Bank; balances may be used only for import payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely Fijian and foreign currency bank notes, but must declare them to customs/immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Residents are required to sell their for- eign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization must be surrendered semiannually unless approval for reinvestment abroad has been granted by the Reserve Bank. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank. Foreign invest- ment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Special tax incentives are granted for investments in the tourism sector, and an investment allowance similar to that for hotels is provided for large-outlay investment projects that support the tourist industry. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in full proceeds from the sale of assets and capital gains on investments that were under- taken before June 1987 up to F$l million a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$125,000 for a family and F$75,000 for a single person; thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$25,000 every six months commencing six months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred; emigrants intending to leave Fiji within 12 months are allowed to transfer up to F$100,000 a family and up to F$50,000 a single person. Nonresidents departing Fiji permanently may remit up to F$250,000 on departure and thereafter up to F$50,000 every six months. Overseas investments and other forms of capital transfers abroad have ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 175 been temporarily suspended. The purchase of per- sonal property abroad is not permitted. Authorized banks conducting transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the con- version of foreign currency into Fiji dollars (includ- ing credit to an external account) and (2) the crediting of an external account with Fiji dollars emanating from another external account (includ- ing Fiji dollar accounts of overseas banks) must report such transactions to the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may lend up to F$50,000 to a newly established company or a branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents for a period of three months, af ter which the loan must be reduced to F$30,000; they may lend up to F$30,000 to individual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans before they leave Fiji. Any amounts in excess of these limits require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank. Residents must obtain prior permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad; at present, permission is not granted. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresi- dents requires approval from the Reserve Bank. The proceeds from the sale or realization of such invest- ment must be sold to authorized dealers. Autho- rized dealers must obtain permission from the Reserve Bank to borrow abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins, but not gold bullion, in Fiji. The exporta- tion of gold coins, except numismatic coins and col- lectors' pieces, requires specific permission from the Reserve Bank. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are exempt from the 10 percent fiscal tax but are subject to a customs duty of 10 percent, whereas gold bullion is exempt from the 10 percent customs duty but is subject to the fiscal tax, and gold jewelry is subject to the 10 percent customs du ty but is exempt from the fiscal tax and does not require a license when valued at less than F$200. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export du ty but require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export du ty of 3 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Commem- orative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not nor- mally circulate. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement December 1. Authorized dealers were permitted to conduct forward exchange transactions in respect of trade transactions for forward periods of up to six months. Imports and Import Payments December 1. (I) The limit on advance payments for imports that authorized dealers are permitted to make without approval from the Reserve Bank was increased to F$10,000 per application from F$2,000; and (2) the F$500 limit on the value of personal imports was abolished. Payments for Invisibles December 1. The limits on foreign exchange that authorized dealers are permitted to provide with- out approval from the Reserve Bank were increased as follows: (1) family maintenance expenses, from F$2,000 a person a year to F$4,000; (2) the annual limit on subscription payments for clubs, societies, trade organizations, etc., from F$200 an application to F$l,000; (3) travel allowances, from F$2,000 an applicant a trip to F$4,000; (4) payments of royal- ties, commissions, patents, brokerage, and copy- rights, from F$6,000 an application to F$l0,000; (5) gift remittances, from F$200 a donor a year to F$500; and (6) unlimited use of credit cards by Fiji residents for travel-related expenses, and an increase in the limit on the use of credit cards for shopping from F$500 a trip to F$l,000, plus with- drawal of F$400 in cash a month (previously, the limit on cash withdrawal was F$200 a month). With prior approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) nonresident-owned companies would be allowed to remit the current year's profits and two years' retained earnings that had not previously been remitted (the previous limit on remittances of retained earnings was up to one year's earnings); (2) emigrants would be allowed to transfer the full amount of the current year's dividends/profits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 FIJI earned on assets left in Fiji (the previous limit was F$3,000 a month). Prior approval from the Reserve Bank would no longer be required to make the following payments if they were accompanied by supporting documen- tary proof: (1) medical treatment; (2) wage pay- ments by shipping companies to foreign crew members, up to F$20,000 per application; (3) adver- tising fees, up to F$10,000 per application; and (4) payments of charges for movie film rental and news services. Exports and Export Proceeds December 1. Exporters were permitted to retain up to 10 percent of proceeds in foreign currency accounts held with authorized dealers or banks abroad and to use the balances to make import payments. Capital November 6. The limits on assets that emigrants may transfer with approval from the Reserve Bank were increased to F$l25,000 a family and to F$75,000 a single person, and the balance was allowed to be transferred at the rate of F$25,000 every six months, beginning six months a f ter departure from Fiji (previously, the limit for a fam- ily was F$20,000 and for a single person F$13,000, with a monthly limit of F$3,000, which could be transferred three months a f ter departure from Fiji). Emigrants intending to leave Fiji within 12 months may be granted an allowance of F$l00,000 a fam i ly and F$50,000 a single person. A nonresident emi- grant would be allowed to transfer up to F$250,000 on departure, and up to F$50,000 semiannually af ter departure (the previous limit was F$60,000 upon emigration). December 1. Authorized dealers were permitted to lend up to F$50,000 (in domestic currency) to new nonresident-controlled enterprises for a period of three months, following which the amount of the loan must be reduced to F$30,000 if it is to be continued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka, the external value of which is determined on the basis of underlying supply and demand conditions in the exchange market. The Finnish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions. On December 31, 1992, the midpoint ra te for the U.S. dollar was Fmk 5.245 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. For- ward premiums and discounts quoted by autho- rized banks reflect interest rate differentials in the countries of the currencies concerned. The Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 25,1979. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and export licensing are administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Finland notified the Fund on July 6,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Finnish markkaa. These accounts may be freely credited and debited. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those coun- tries. However, some agricultural products and fish may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for the issuing of import licenses up to at least the quota for specified commodity groups. All imports of goods classified in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area1 require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency responsible for the importation of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products made of these grains for human consump- tion, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly on imports of alcoholic beverages. Authorized banks freely grant foreign exchange for all licensed imports on presentation of a notifi- cation form and the import license (when required for imports from countries w i th nonconvertible currencies). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible transactions are free from restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal and used goods. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Prescription of Currency Proceeds from Invisibles Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency or through convertible accounts. Nonresident Accounts Receipts from current invisibles are not subject to controls. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign currency account in Finland. The importa- tion of domestic and foreign currency and coins is unrestricted. Nonresident accounts may be held in an autho- rized bank in any convertible currency, including 1 Currently, Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 Capital FINLAND All capital transactions are allowed without restriction. The, international banking activities of authorized Finnish banks are free from regulation but are subject to certain supervisory reporting requirements. Nonresidents may purchase Finnish securities without restriction, with effect from Janu- ary 1,1993. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 15. The Bank of Finland entered into swap arrangements with the central banks of the mem- bers of the European Community Similar arrange- ments were also concluded with the central banks of Austria, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. September 8. The peg to the European Currency Unit (ECU) was discontinued, and the authorities allowed market forces to determine the exchange rate of the Finnish markka. The exchange rate (mid- dle rate) moved from Fmk 3.87 per US$1 on Sep- tember 7 to Fmk 4.51 per US$1 on September 8, representing a 14.2 percent depreciation in U.S. dol- lar terms. Prescription of Currency October 16. The bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria was terminated. Capital January 1. Foreign private individuals, foreign corporate entities, and Finnish corporate entities owned by nonresidents were permitted to own shares in Finnish investment trusts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ire- land, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mech- anism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the f ranc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of plus 2.2753 percent or minus 2.2247 percent (in the case of the Portuguese es- cudo and the Spanish peseta, plus 6.18 percent or minus 5.82 percent) against the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Cur- rency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participat- ing states in unlimited amounts at specified inter- vention rates. On December 31, 1992, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Francs Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 1 100 1,000 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 16.6310 89.9250 343.0500 9.1890 304.4400 38.5030 4.8926 15.8990 85.9700 327.9200 8.7850 291.0400 34.1520 4.3396 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Indicative rates for 21 currencies are pub- lished daily by the Central Bank on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1992, the rate was lrThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16,1992, and Italy withdrew on September 17,1992. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and zaires. F 5.5065 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the over- seas territories of French Polynesia, New Cale- donia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and to the two CFA francs, which are the currencies of two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account.3 These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F 0.055 and CFAF 1 per F 0.02, respectively. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents including non- enterprise individuals may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. France formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control All exchange control regulations have been phased out on the basis of Decree No. 89-938 of December 29,1989. The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign coun- tries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the 3 Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communau te financiere d'Afrique, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equa tor ial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere d'Afr ique centrale, issued by BEAC). 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 FRANCE framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE). Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing con- tracts and technical-assistance contracts. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.4 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident foreign accounts in francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident enterprises engaged in international trade are authorized to hold foreign currency accounts in France or abroad. Such enterprises are also authorized to hold accounts in francs abroad. All residents, including individuals and enterprises not engaged in international trade, are permitted to hold ECU-denominated accounts in France, to hold foreign currency-denominated accounts in France or abroad, and to hold French franc-denominated accounts abroad. Nonresident accounts in francs may be freely opened by registered banks for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. Since March 1989, all overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts have been unrestricted. Nonresident accounts may be operated freely. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addi- tion, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods that originate in other countries and that are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Some imports from non-EC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, 4 Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Cale- donia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Leba- non, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, and Western Samoa; (2) some specified countries;5 and (3) China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applica- ble to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of ori- gin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is rela- tively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from different coun- tries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (for petroleum and petro- leum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantita- tive restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols but do require a customs document, which con- stitutes the customs declaration. For some liberalized 5Afghan is tan, Argentina, Aus tra l ia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, Mexico, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, N icaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Afr ica, Sri Lanka, Thailand, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Republic of Yemen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 181 imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appropriate min- istry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Com- munity (ECSC) require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and apply to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agree- ments or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Imports of some products must pass through designated customs offices. Documents accompanying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EC- wide restrictions and national restrictions. The former include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agricultural and industrial products negotiated at the EC level. EC-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authoriza- tion. National restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EC are enforced through temporary import restrictions authorized by the EC Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EC (for example, industry-to-industry understandings that do not directly involve member governments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or standards and certification procedures. Automatic licensing is granted for imports that are under surveillance at either the EC or the national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries may be made by credit to a foreign account in francs, with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market, or by debiting a foreign currency account in France or abroad. All residents and inter- national trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad (also in French francs) without limit on the credit balance. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, by compensation of debts or claims, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be trans- ferred through postal channels are not subject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Administra- tion does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may, without special authorization, permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial con- tract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries by residents for current invisibles have to be reported for statistical purposes but are not restricted as to amount. Regis- tered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles without limitation. Remittances abroad for family support abroad and donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of for- eign or domestic bank notes resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out, but amounts exceeding F 50,000 or its equivalent must be declared to cus- toms upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if their total value does not exceed F 10,000 (F 100,000 for art objects or collectors' items), they may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exporters are allowed to cover forward for an unlimited period and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from transactions in invisibles may be retained. With minor exceptions for certain types of transaction, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins (except gold coins) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any for- eign currency; amounts of F 50,000 or larger, how- ever, must be declared to customs upon arrival. At ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 FRANCE the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, bank notes issued by these countries may not be exchanged. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward transfers of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely. Residents' capital assets abroad are not subject to repatriation. The transfer abroad of nonresident- owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capi- tal assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a for- eign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier may also be sold in France, and the sale proceeds may be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by nonresidents must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but may not be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by resi- dents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French reg- istered bank or broker. Subject to compliance with the special regula- tions concerning inward and outward direct invest- ment, residents may purchase abroad, through registered banks abroad, French and foreign securi- ties that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad but may also be imported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may import them into France through a registered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include control over inward direct investments in existing French firms. The basis for control over foreign direct investments is Decree No. 89-938 of December 29, 1989, as amended by Decree No. 92-134 of February 1992, which applies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the Operations Account and Monaco. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Any participation leading foreign investors to hold more than one-third of the capital is considered direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20 percent of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participations. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. Foreign direct investments in existing French firms generally require prior declaration to the Min- istry of Economy and Finance. Investments in real estate (except development companies and vine- yards) and, when they do not exceed F 10 million, in hotels, restaurants, and retail trade and services are exempt from prior declaration. The same exemption applies to increases of equity capital in a company already controlled by a foreign investor and to complementary participations in a company in which an investor already holds more than two- thirds of the capital share. The Ministry of Economy and Finance may suspend the acquisition by non- EC investors of a participation in an existing French firm within 30 days only if the investment exceeds F 50 million or if the turnover of the targeted French firm exceeds F 500 million. Investments of less than F 50 million by non-EC residents in a firm with a turnover not exceeding F 500 million are not restricted but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy and Finance within 20 days. Applications for these investments are processed within 15 days. Any non-EC investment may take place freely after the 15-30 day period if the Minister of Economy and Finance has not formally notified the investor of his decision to suspend the acquisition. Natural and juridical persons residing in the EC may freely invest in France but must submit a report to the Ministry of Economy and Finance af ter the invest- ment is concluded. Applications for these invest- ments are processed within 15 days. Investments of EC groups benefiting from the status of "permanent EC investors" are not subject to any prior declara- tion and control requirement and are required only to report to the Ministry of Economy and Finance within 20 days of concluding the investment. Com- panies controlled by EC residents are free to under- take investment without prior notification to the Treasury. Regardless of the nationality of a nonresi- dent investor, the Minister of Economy and Finance may issue a finding within one month to prohibit a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 183 participation if public health, order, security, or defense is considered to be in danger. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. Foreign direct investments by residents are not restricted but, if they exceed F 5 million, they must be reported to the Bank of France within 20 days. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds, if they exceed F 5 million, are reported to the Bank of France. Foreign issues on the French capital market, except issues originating in EC countries, are sub- ject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad in French francs or foreign currencies by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, is unrestricted. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as these activities relate to French firms engaged primarily in real estate business. All restrictions on lending in French francs to nonresi- dents were abolished, effective March 9,1989. Limi- tations on the foreign exchange positions of commercial banks for the purposes of exchange control were also abolished as of June 1, 1989. Reg- istered banks are free to lend foreign currency to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there before November 25,1968. There is a free gold mar- ket for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the regula- tions applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coins are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coins are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Com- missions are levied at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Min- istry of Finance, Budget, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and terri- tories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Participations, who has partly delegated approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the lrThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Bank of Central African States (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Came- roon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equa- torial Guinea. external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediar- ies—that is, the Postal Administration and autho- rized banks. Import and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to for- eign accounts in francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Other- wise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities with the exception of refined vegetable oil, which requires prior approval. All imports whose value exceeds CFAF 500,000 from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to autho- rization. Quantitative restrictions are maintained only on imports of sugar, vegetable oil, soap, min- eral water, and cement. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to sim- plify administrative procedures. Imports from 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 185 countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domestic products are subject to licensing, but, with a few exceptions2 that are estab- lished by ministerial order, import authorizations are granted liberally. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil, except when they originate in UDEAC member countries, are suspended. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income, in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties, accru- ing to nonresidents are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Trav- elers to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export 2 Currently totaling about thirty items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vegeta- ble oil. CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for chil- dren under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business travel, the amount of bank notes that may be car- ried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected with- out limit through the banking or postal system. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a for- eign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be depos- ited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls, in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply, are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 GABON and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls apply to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its; the full or partial liquidation of investments must also be declared to the ministry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a sharehold- ing that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the min- istry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months of receipt of the declara- tion, the ministry may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the ministry within 20 days of the oper- ation. (Direct investments are defined as those that imply control of a company or enterprise.) The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Govern- ment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participa- 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. tions. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. However, the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participa- tions. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstand- ing does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. However, making loans that are free of autho- rization, and each repayment, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total out- standing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of July 6, 1989, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain con- ditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified income. In addition to fiscal privileges, the code provides for four categories of preferential treat- ment. Eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given pri- ority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. Foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals for an amount equivalent to at least 10 percent of the companies' capital. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 187 gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the Societe gabonaise de recherches et Sexploitation minieres. However, imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the Central Bank of The Gambia/or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The Central Bank conducts a fixing session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the commercial banks and for- eign exchange bureaus during which the exchange rate is derived from the actual transactions rates in the interbank market for customs valuation pur- poses for the following week. On December 31, 1992, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the interbank market was D 9.30 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Gambia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as from January 21,1993. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act was repealed in November 1992, and no exchange controls are in force. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received from nonresident sources in dalasis or in any convertible currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and also Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the Central Bank when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holder's source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign cur- rency. Designated external accounts may be cred- ited with payments from residents of other countries, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other external accounts, and for purchases of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or secu- rity reasons. All other imports are freely permitted under open general licenses. All merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charita- ble organizations are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Visitors to The Gambia are not required to declare foreign currency in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. The exportation of all other goods can take place without individual licenses if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the Cen- tral Bank. Export proceeds must be received through a commercial bank within six months of the date of exportation in a convertible foreign cur- rency and sold to commercial banks or through transfers from a designated external account. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no restriction on the importation of for- eign currency notes or Gambian bank notes. Capital Inward transfers for the purpose of direct equity investment are not restricted but must be reported to the Central Bank. Prior approval from the Cen- tral Bank is required for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Banks may provide reasonable overdraft facilities to members of diplomatic and international mis- 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 189 sions in The Gambia. Loans and advances by com- mercial banks to nonresident companies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks are subject to limits set by the Central Bank; amounts held in excess of these limits must be offered for sale in the interbank market or offered to the Central Bank. These limits must be observed daily, and the amount held must be reported weekly to the Central Bank. In addition, two para- statals (The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) and The Gambia Telecommunication Com- pany (GamTel)) are temporarily permitted to main- tain limited working balances in foreign exchange. The limits must be observed weekly, and the amounts held must be reported monthly to the Central Bank. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered, by the GPMB to the Central Bank and by GamTel to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The importation of gold coins and bullion requires the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control November 30. The Exchange Control Act sus- pended in 1986 was repealed in the context of a revised Central Bank Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA1 (Position as of December 31, 2992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Georgia is the Russian Ruble.2 The official exchange rate of the Russian ruble against major currencies is set weekly by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG). The official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is ascertained on the basis of the exchange rate in the Moscow Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange, as published by the Central Bank of Russia, whereas the exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the Government and enterprises and other legal entities. At the end of January 1993, the official exchange rate quoted by the NBG for the U.S. dollar was rub 568 per US$1. For all commercial transac- tions, the exchange rates of the ruble against other currencies in the international market are negoti- ated freely between the banks licensed by the NBG and their customers; for major currencies, these rates are guided by the weekly quotation of the offi- cial exchange rate of the ruble. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The NBG is responsible for implementing exchange rate policy and administering exchange control regu- lations, which are formulated in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. Decree No. 259 on First-Stage of Liberalization of Foreign Exchange Activity of March 5, 1992 has established the legal basis for the conduct of foreign economic activities in Georgia. The main provisions of this decree (1) allow all enterprises to engage directly in foreign trade, (2) allow all resi- dents to acquire and hold foreign currency and engage in authorized foreign transactions without a general license, and (3) authorize banks to open for- eign exchange accounts for all residents. Trade with lrThe Republic of Georgia became a member of the IMF on May 5,1992. 2 On April 5,1993, the National Bank of Georgia began to issue coupons, which circulate along with the Russian ruble. countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. is controlled by the State Committee on Foreign Eco- nomic Relations (SCFER) (Decree No. 867 on Tempo- rary Regulations on Quotas and Licensing of Exports and Imports of August 26,1992). The NBG has the authority to issue general licenses to commercial banks and permit them to engage in foreign exchange transactions with non- residents and open correspondent accounts with banks outside the Russian ruble area. As of the end of January 1993, six banks were granted such licenses. The NBG also has the authority to issue restricted licenses to commercial banks and to per- mit them to buy and sell foreign exchange or extend credit in foreign exchange to residents only in the states of the former U.S.S.R.; these banks are not permitted to open correspondent accounts in banks abroad. Enterprises may open foreign exchange accounts in specialized banks in accordance with a regulation issued by the NBG on June 22,1992. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspon- dent accounts. Settlements w i th other countries w i th which Georgia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident individuals and enterprises are permit- ted to open and operate foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. There are no restrictions on the use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. The opening of for- eign exchange accounts abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and the NBG. Nonresidents may maintain foreign exchange accounts. 3At the end of 1992, Georgia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. At the end of 1992, Georgia also maintained bilat- eral trade agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Turkey, and Turkmenistan; these agreements provided for settlements in convertible currencies. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA 191 Imports and Exports All foreign trade activities must be licensed. For- eign exchange to pay for imports may be purchased freely from authorized banks at market rates. There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, and licenses are not required, except for weapons and narcotics, which are licensed by SCFER. A customs duty of 2 percent is levied on all imports, except medicines and food items (excluding tobacco and alcoholic beverages), irrespective of the currency denomination of the contract. A customs duty of 20 percent is levied on all barter operations whose contract is denominated in rubles. These duties are not levied on imports under government agree- ments, except that imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are subject to a general license fee of 0.15 percent. There is no legal prohibition on exports, but items such as food and raw materials are subject, in practice, to temporary export prohibitions or are limited to the quantities available after allocation for domestic consumption and exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. under bilateral agreements. Two types of export license are issued by the SCFER. General licenses are issued to large state enterprises for one year upon submission of con- tracts with foreign importers that state whether the transactions will involve imports through barter or repatriation of foreign exchange and upon authori- zation from the Cabinet of Ministers. In recom- mending issuance of a license, the SCFER takes into account such factors as whether exports would cre- ate shortages of goods in the domestic market and whether quotas under bilateral agreements have been, or will be, fulfilled. Regular licenses are granted on a case-by-case basis by the SCFER with- out authorization from the Cabinet of Ministers. Resident exporters are required to transfer to authorized banks 12 percent of convertible cur- rency proceeds from exports; 10 percent of the sur- rendered foreign exchange is transferred to the State Foreign Exchange Fund of the Republic held by the NBG and 2 percent is transferred to local governments. The remaining 88 percent may be retained by exporters in foreign exchange accounts maintained at authorized banks and may be used to pay for expenses for equipment and materials related to production activities. Withdrawal from foreign exchange accounts of any portion of retained earnings in cash may be made only for business expenses, such as payments for business travel abroad, payments of fees and honoraria, or payments of wages and salaries to foreign person- nel employed by the exporter. Exporters are required to surrender 32 percent of proceeds, and may hold the remainder in foreign exchange accounts abroad with the authorization of the Min- istry of Finance. The surrendered foreign exchange is distributed as follows: 20 percent to the State For- eign Fund of the Republic, 2 percent to the local authorities, and 10 percent to the NBG. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange to make payments for invisible transactions or use foreign exchange balances in their foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Proceeds from invisibles are subject to the same reg- ulations and procedures as those applicable to the proceeds from exports. The importation of foreign currency bank notes is unrestricted, but amounts must be declared. Capital Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted, but are subject to registration require- ments for monitoring purposes. Direct investments in Georgia by residents of the Russian Federation are currently prohibited. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of February 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism (ERM) of the European Mone- (EMS).1 In accordance w i th this tary System agreement, Germany maintains the spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the curren- cies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified interven- tion rates. On February 1, 1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 100 100 100 1 100 100 100 Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 4.9590 26.8100 30.4950 2.4660 90.7700 1.1480 1.4590 4.7400 25.6300 29.1500 2.3570 86.7800 1.0180 1.2940 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits but do intervene periodically to smooth out erratic fluctua- tions in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of F rank fu rt am Main.2 On December 31, 1992, the official middle rate for the l rThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange ra te and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and I ta ly on September 17,1992. 2Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. U.S. dollar was DM 1.614 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions may be nego- tiated freely by residents and nonresidents in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transac- tions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is oper- ated by the Federal Ministry of Economics; the Fed- eral Ministry of Finance; the Federal Ministry of Transportation; the Federal Office for Economics; the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and For- estry; the Federal Office for Food and Forestry; the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organi- zation; and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Germany notified the Fund on November 5, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Imports and Import Payments The import list comprises 10,370 statistical posi- tions. Their treatment is as follows: commodities corresponding to 115 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries on Country ListC.3 The importation of 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regarding interna- 3Countries on L i s tC are Albania, the former member coun- tries of the Council for M u t u al Economic Assistance (CMEA), China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Coun- tries in List A/B are those of the former Organization for Euro- pean Economic Cooperation (replaced in 1961 by the OECD) and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 193 tional trade in textiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements of the European Community (EC) with various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not mem- bers of the European Coal and Steel Community, and from Austria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Swe- den, and Switzerland, are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Com- mon Agricultural Policy of the EC covers 2,054 sta- tistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which have in large part replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Commod- ity futures may be dealt in freely, and most transit trade transactions may be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the con- clusion of related sea freight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to indi- vidual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require a license. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance involving the delivery of construction drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 3) if such assistance is for the production of goods whose exportation requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. Ger- man and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; if a foreign deutsche mark bond is to be lead-managed by a foreign-owned German bank, the same option should be available to Ger- man-owned banks in the home country or bank in question. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported and exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied to the sale of German money market papers and fixed- interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no limi- tations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to minimum reserve require- ments equal to their foreign liabilities with maturi- ties of less than four years; the minimum reserve ratios at the end of 1991 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 12.1 percent on demand deposits, 4.95 percent on time deposits, and 4.15 percent on savings deposits. Liabilities to nonresidents in foreign currency are exempt from reserve requirements to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign currency with maturities of less than four years. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form and may negotiate with residents or nonresidents, both at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfur t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 GERMANY Imports of gold bullion and coins, unworked gold, and gold alloys, while free of customs duty, are sub- ject to value-added tax at the rate of 15 percent. In the case of imports of gold coins on which the assess- ment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundes- bank are exempt from value-added tax and customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is lev- ied on transactions in gold bullion carried out on gold exchanges between brokers admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of arti- cles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange rate insurance scheme in respect of receipts in U.S. dollars by Deutsche Air- bus from sales of aircraft components and supplies to Airbus Industries was terminated. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi, whose exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. The average exchange rate in this market is used for official valuation purposes but is not always applied by authorized banks in their trans- actions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain nonconvertible currencies of the West Afr ican region, including the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily but are applied only to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted nonconvertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean franc, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea-Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. Authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency. On December 31, 1992, the exchange rate in the interbank market was C 520 per US$1. With effect from February 1, 1988, any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana could open a foreign exchange bureau. According to the regulations, foreign exchange bureaus may pur- chase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, how- ever, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign currency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify their sources. Each foreign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. All bona fide imports and approved services may be funded through the bureaus. With effect from May 17, 1991, all autho- rized foreign exchange dealers (which include some nonbank foreign exchange bureaus) have been sub- ject to limits on their net open positions in foreign exchange; holdings of foreign exchange in excess of these limits must be sold to other dealers or to the Bank of Ghana. International organizations, embassies, and simi- lar institutions are not permitted to transfer funds into Ghana through any foreign exchange bureau or to carry out foreign exchange transactions under the foreign exchange bureau scheme. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on pur- chases and repurchases of foreign exchange used for travel, and on exchange purchases for educa- tion, medical treatment abroad, and private out- ward transfers. There are no arrangements for forward exchange transactions, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Trade is empowered to prohibit or regu- late all imports. The Foreign Transactions Examina- tions Office (FTEO) in the Foreign Operations Department of the Bank of Ghana records and con- firms foreign capital inflows and administers for- eign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and transacted by authorized banks without reference to the Bank of Ghana. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Ghana maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. These agreements are inactive, and the clearing balances are being settled. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 Nonresident Accounts GHANA Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. It is also available to interna- tional institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana and to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be approved by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency They may be deb- ited for inward payments, for transfers to other for- eign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called official accounts or territorial accounts. They may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from foreign accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of external currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents- —for example, certain types of capital pro- ceeds—may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports, except for four categories (beer and stout, cigarettes, cement pipes, and roofing sheets of asbestos and fiber) and those prohibited for non- trade reasons, are allowed. Effective January 14, 1989, all import-licensing requirements were abol- ished; importers are now required to file an Import Declaration Form, which is not subject to approval, through the authorized banks for statistical pur- poses only. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Pro- curement Agency, while public sector imports must go through the Ghana Supply Commission. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through authorized Ghanaian banks on a sight basis. For imports valued at more than $5,000 (f.o.b.), authorized banks are not allowed to make payments against letters of credit or bank d ra f ts unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies with respect to the goods and unless they verify the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are approved and effected by authorized banks, provided that appli- cations are supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas banks for import payments are generally authorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f.o.b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documented. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, nonresident companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on foreign exchange purchased for official travel, and a com- mission of 0.75 percent is levied on all foreign exchange transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out any unused foreign currency that they brought into Ghana and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of iron and steel scrap. With the exception of cocoa, which is exported through the Cocoa Board, exports of all other agricultural commodities have been liberalized. Diamonds are exported through the Precious Metal Marketing Corporation and Ghana Consolidated Diamond Company. Exports of cocoa are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 197 Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of residual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the exportation of electricity do not have to be surrendered to the Bank of Ghana. Retained earnings may be held in accounts abroad for financing essential imports or credited to the exporters' foreign exchange accounts with banks located in Ghana. Provided that payments from the foreign exchange accounts of exporters are sup- ported by relevant documents, retained export earn- ings may be sold at the foreign exchange bureaus or be used to import goods through a bank, to purchase airline tickets, or for foreign travel, for medical ser- vices or educational expenses abroad, and for any other approved invisible payments. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange acquired for the purpose of foreign travel are sub- ject to a processing fee of 5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code of 1981, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liqui- dation, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation —for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Invest- ment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Gha- naian nationals are held in blocked, non-interest- bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Trans- fers of such funds are being effected gradually Under a supplementary investment code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a minerals code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties on imports of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable depreciation or capi- tal allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 percent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum qualifying amount of investment capital is $60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and $100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Trans- fers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Depending on the amount, proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident compa- nies controlled by nonresidents require the individ- ual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted for- eign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securi- ties are controlled to ensure that capital is not trans- ferred abroad. For portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval to switch holdings of securi- ties issued by nonresidents. Private sector and com- mercial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at $100,000 or more; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain government guidelines. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to receive external aid, the industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in add i t ion to their regular retention accounts) w i th funds earmarked from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GHANA export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Cred- its and the FTEO of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors receipts and payments out of these accounts. Accounts have also been established for the diamond sector and for the fishing and timber companies financed with suppliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The weekly (wholesale) foreign exchange auction system was replaced by an interbank market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the main intervention currency, and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece and the authorized com- mercial banks participate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. On December 31, 1992, buying and sell- ing rates in the interbank market were Dr 215.40 and Dr 215.50, respectively, per US$1. The commer- cial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions on the domestic spot and for- ward exchange market. Forward cover may be extended to all current transactions, except for uni- lateral private transfers, by residents for periods of up to one year. Currency swap transactions between domestic financial institutions are permit- ted without restriction on maturities for up to one year. The exchange rates applied by the commercial banks in the above-mentioned transactions are freely determined in the foreign exchange market. Forward rates are also quoted to nonresident banks, provided that relevant contracts involve banks that deal in European Currency Units (ECUs) for a maturity period of up to three months. Banks are not allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions related to these transactions. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism of the EMS. Greece formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 22,1992. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are autho- rized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos, and Spanish pesetas. and prepare the documentation for exports accord- ing to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in for- eign exchange for invisibles and capital transactions within the framework of existing regulations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Accounts in foreign currency. These accounts may be maintained by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (including seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry Prin- cipal and interest on these accounts are freely trans- ferable abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened for up to 12 months. Greek residents may also open these accounts with undeclared foreign bank notes; principal and interest on these accounts may be withdrawn in drachmas and in foreign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. The Bank of Greece sets a maximum limit on interest on these accounts, except for the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and the rate on nonresidents' deposits in certain curren- cies, which is negotiable. Accounts in convertible drachmas. Nonresidents may open sight and time deposits in convertible drachmas. Interest rates on these deposits are freely negotiable. The commercial banks operating in Greece are allowed to lend to credit institutions abroad amounts in convertible drachmas not exceeding their total deposits in convertible drach- mas. The maturity of such loans can be up to 12 months, and the interest rate is freely negotiable. Blocked accounts. Claims of non-European Com- munity (EC) residents denominated in drachmas that are not derived from imported foreign cur- rency must be deposited in blocked accounts. With- drawals of funds and payments abroad from these accounts are subject to the approval of the Bank of 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 GREECE Greece, except those involving funds derived from profits, rental income, and pensions, which may be made without the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the EC member countries are not subject to approval or clearance procedures. Approval for imports from other sources is granted automatically, either before or after shipment of goods, by the commercial banks, and the required amount of foreign exchange is made available. Spe- cial import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost coun- tries; these products are under surveillance accord- ing to EC quotas. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medicines, narcot- ics, and motion picture films. Settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days of the date of arrival at the first Greek port; this provision, however, is not enforced. Import payments are not subject to official regula- tions; in almost all cases, they are effected on the basis of agreements between the contracting parties. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are permitted to provide for- eign exchange for all invisibles payments af ter veri- fying, as appropriate, the authenticity of the intended transactions. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to cap- ital transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Remittances for family maintenance and earnings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary requirements regarding proof of need and source of income. Foreign banks operat- ing in Greece are permitted to repatriate their prof- its, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Nonresidents leaving Greece may take out for- eign bank notes up to the equivalent of $1,000 within a year of their arrival in Greece, as well as traveler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 20,000 in Greek bank notes. Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out no later than December 31 of the calendar year follow- ing the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this time limit by approving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Exporters are allowed to maintain 10 percent of their proceeds in foreign currency accounts with banks operating in Greece, provided that their earned export proceeds in the previous calendar year exceed $100,000. Exporters may use export proceeds for repayment of debt, including suppli- ers' credits. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 60 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from ocean- going shipping are exempted from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their dis- bursements and expenses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange, but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure, and not later than December 31 of the calendar year fol- lowing the year in which they entered Greece. They may also bring in a maximum of Dr 40,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of $1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. Travelers may also bring in a maximum of Dr 100,000 in Greek bank notes. Capital Direct investments in Greece undertaken by non-EC residents in accordance with the Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 are sub- ject to verification, and the repatriation of the liqui- dation proceeds and the exportation of the profits, dividends, interest, and amortization of funds are not restricted. Investments in real estate in Greece by non-EC residents are permitted, and the pro- ceeds of liquidation can be repatriated after five years following the date of conversion of the for- eign currency into drachmas. Non-EC residents are allowed to purchase unquoted bonds issued by Greek firms, provided the initial maturity of these bonds is at least two years. Investments in real estate by residents of Greece in EC countries are freely permitted. Investments by residents of Greece in quoted securities, bonds with maturities of at least one year, and units of mutual funds issued abroad are also freely permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 201 Direct investments by residents of Greece in the member countries of the EC are permitted freely; similar investments in non-EC member countries require prior approval. Greek public and private enterprises and profes- sionals are allowed to borrow foreign exchange from banks, foreign juridical persons, or individu- als residing abroad without prior approval from the Bank of Greece, provided the maturity of the loans is longer than one year. This regulation excludes unit trusts, mutual funds, securities companies and brokers, buyers or builders of houses for private purposes, and enterprises that own or operate ocean-going vessels. For exporting firms, the matu- rity of the loans can be less than 12 months, pro- vided the firms service their loans with their export earnings. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad that do not fall into the above categories and do not qualify as direct investments are subject to prior approval. Transfers abroad of the liquidation proceeds from listed and unlisted securities, unquoted bonds with an initial maturity of two years, treasury bills, long- term government bonds, and bonds of public sector entities are allowed, provided they are purchased with foreign currency. The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of unlisted securities by non- EC residents is subject to prior approval. Legislative Decree 2687/1953, Presidential Decree 207/1987, and Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 govern direct investments. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sover- eigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an autho- rized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a spe- cial license; licenses are normally issued to import- ers for distribution to jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be re- exported af ter being approved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 22. Greece formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas January 2. Interest on sight deposits in convertible drachma accounts was allowed to be negotiated between banks and account holders. January 28. All restrictions on withdrawals and payments abroad from blocked accounts of funds derived from rents and pensions were abolished. August 7. Residents of Greece were allowed to open and maintain deposit accounts in foreign exchange with bank notes without reporting the sources of acquisition. Principal and interest earned on these accounts may be withdrawn in foreign bank notes or drachmas but may not be transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) Payments for Invisibles January 1. Transfers abroad of profits earned on investments undertaken by residents of non-EC member countries and after-tax rental income from real estate located in Greece and owned by individ- uals or legal entities permanently residing abroad were liberalized. January 28. The transfer abroad of profits from investments undertaken in Greece by non-EC resi- dents on the basis of the provisions of L.D. 2687/53 or of various decisions of the Bank of Greece before the Act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece 825/1986 came into force was permitted without restriction. March 4. (1) The liberalization of travel payments and use of international credit cards by residents of Greece traveling to EC countries was also extended to non-EC countries; (2) payments by residents traveling abroad for business were liberalized; and (3) the exchange allowance for education abroad was liberalized, allowing authorized banks to pro- vide amounts in excess of monthly indicative limits on the basis of appropriate documentary proof. July 22. All remaining restrictions on current pay- ments and transfers were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 Capital GREECE June 11. (1) residents of Greece were allowed to acquire dividends, bqnds, and shares issued by legal entities established in non-EC member coun- tries under the same terms and conditions as those applied in EC member countries; and (2) residents of Greece were allowed to invest in real estate located in non-EC member countries under the same terms and conditions as those applied to real estate investments in EC member countries, /w n^ 17. Credit institutions established in Greece were allowed to lend to individuals permanently residing abroad with their own resources or with borrowing in foreign exchange for acquisition of real estate in Greece. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 32, 2992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of inputs by local manufac- turers certified by the Industrial Development Cor- poration, payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs, remittances to cover the expenses of uni- versity education abroad and those related to medi- cal services, transactions of the Grenada Development Bank with the European Investment Bank, transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordinance, and sales of foreign exchange repatriated by Grenadians living abroad. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, applies to all countries. The ministry delegates to authorized dealers the author- ity to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers trade control. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must l rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from external accounts. Set- tlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an exter- nal account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers may open external accounts for nonresidents without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts, maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars, may be credited with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies, with transfers from other external accounts, with bank interest (payable on external accounts), and with payments by resi- dents for which the ministry has given general or specific permission. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Grenada for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only with for- eign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments On May 1,1991, Grenada implemented the Com- mon External Tariff of the Caribbean Common Mar- ket. All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported, but imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas, cigarettes, processed pork products, curry powder, war toys, mops, children's garments, dio- thene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for 3 Foreign currencies inc lude all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 GRENADA the banana industry, solar water heaters, electric accumulators for automobiles, and aluminum win- dows, doors, and associated items. Certain other commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions and require an import license. Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval from this ministry. Imports of capital equipment are exempt from import duties, as are imports by the commodity associations that are intended for quality improve- ments in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg, and imports of fuel by the Grenada Electric Company. Imports not exempt from customs du ty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c.i.f. value, with the exception of imports of raw materials for use in local manufac- turing of finished products, which are subject to an 8 percent value-added tax. Imports of certain basic consumer items, brewery products, and cigarettes from countries outside the CARICOM are subject to special surcharges of 10 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent, respectively. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for education, medical treatment, gifts, family mainte- nance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, pro- ceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers to provide basic allo- cations of foreign exchange for a few types of payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person for business travel), subscriptions to maga- zines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in excess of EC$5,000 a person for purposes of tourism are con- sidered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic cur- rency and is not deducted from the travel alloca- tion. Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the exportation of cer- tain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in for- eign currencies are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins in Eastern Caribbean cur- rency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents may not purchase for- eign currency securities or real estate abroad for private purposes. Certificates of title to foreign cur- rency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which is normally granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. Certain allowances may be made for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. With exchange control approval, nonresidents may invest directly in Grenada. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted provided that all related liabilities have been discharged and that the origi- nal investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresidents may use foreign currency to acquire real estate in Grenada for private purposes; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realiza- tion of investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for residents to borrow abroad or for non- residents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance approved transfers for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 205 both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Effective March 15, 1991, all restrictions on transfers of Eastern Caribbean dollars from Grenada to countries served by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank were eliminated. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial pur- poses only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The Ministry of Finance issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not nor- mally permitted. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments July 28. Exemptions from import taxes for most statutory bodies were removed, except for fuel imports by the Grenada Electricity Company ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. Guatemala maintains an exchange system under which the Bank of Guatemala auctions for- eign exchange but fixes both the buying rate and a base auction rate. The supply of foreign exchange to the auctions by the Bank of Guatemala is derived from export proceeds surrendered at an exchange rate that is set daily at a level equal to the average successful bid rates during the previous three working days. Normally, the Bank of Guatemala retains part of the foreign exchange surrendered to it to meet its own requirements. Bidding may be made only by Guatemalan residents and is restricted to a range of Q 0.05 on each side of the base auction rate. The base rate is adjusted once every three weeks on the basis of the movement of the exchange rate during the preceding three weeks. On December 31, 1992, the buying and sell- ing rates of the Bank of Guatemala in terms of the U.S. dollar were Q 5.24401 and Q 5.30465, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dollar1 are officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala (for example, servicing of its external debt disbursed before June 6, 1986) are conducted at an accounting exchange rate of Q 1 per US$1. Although the Bank of Guatemala does not issue new exchange rate guarantees, it honors guarantees granted before the end of October 1989. There are no other arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On January 27,1947, Guatemala formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Transi- tional Law on the Foreign Exchange Regime. For- eign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guate- mala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Exports of goods must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guaraittee repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars or in domestic currency in accordance with special payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Import tariffs are in the range of 5 to 20 percent. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of coffee beans and coffee plants, explo- sives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. The exportation of a few other items is prohibited, including the exportation of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a spe- cial export license) and silver in any form. Exporters must obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Gua- temalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is con- tingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days of the date of issuance (this period may be extended to 90 days). In the case of exports to Central America, there are clearing arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national currencies, U.S. dollars, or barter. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, interna- 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 207 tional credit card payments, and others are permit- ted without restriction. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments Capital All capital transactions take place without limita- tion. Investment in the petroleum sector is gov- erned by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala may buy and sell gold coins and bullion either directly or through the banks and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users in accordance with the directives of the Monetary Board. The exportation of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. February 1. The customs duties subject to agree- ment within the Central American Common Mar- ket were narrowed to 5-30 percent (and were fur ther reduced to 5-20 percent in January 1993). May 1. El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras agreed to establish a regional free trade area, effec- tive January 1, 1993. The agreement would need to be approved by the legislature of each country. September 28. A new tar iff law (Decree No. 52/ 92), to become effective on November 1, 1992, was approved. The new law would narrow the range of tariff rates on goods not subject to regional negotia- tions to 5-20 percent from 0-40 percent, eliminate ent surcharge applied to all imports, and reduce the number of du ty exemptions applied to automobile imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate of the Guinean franc against the SDR is set in weekly fixing sessions and is quoted in terms of the SDR. The private sector and public enterprises, through the intermediation of commercial banks, may sell and purchase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, except for limitations placed on purchases for tour- ist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by non- resident workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the rates of these currencies against the SDR, as published by the IMF. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. On December 31,1992, the official exchange rate for the SDR was GF 1,268 per SDR 1. Foreign exchange bureaus are in operation, and exchange rates in the market are determined by supply and demand con- ditions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank of Guinea, which has delegated to the commercial banks authority to (1) approve import forms (descriptifs d'importation) and import applica- tion forms (demandes descriptives d'importation) for amounts of up to $200,000; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding foreign airline tickets (travelers holding tickets issued by Compagnie nationale Air Guinee must apply to the Central Bank for their travel allowances); and (3) manage foreign currency accounts opened in the name of nonresidents. All settlements with foreign coun- tries, including payments for imports, require approval from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in cur- rencies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maurita- nia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settle- ments with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts The opening of deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency by residents at the domestic commercial banks is subject to prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: nonresident transferable accounts in foreign curren- cies may be opened freely, subject to notification of the Central Bank by commercial banks; the opening of nonresident accounts in Guinean francs is subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Accounts in Convertible Guinean Francs Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. They are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespec- tive of its origin. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in convertible Guinean francs. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commercial banks into foreign cur- rencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. These accounts carry an interest premium of 2 percentage points over deposit accounts in Guinean francs. Imports and Import Payments Almost all produc ts may be f ree ly imported into Guinea (except armamen ts, ammun i t ion, and narcotics). All imports of less than $200,000 require authori- zation, which is granted by the commercial banks 1 Guinea ma in ta ins b i la teral paymen ts agreements with China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements are inoperative. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 209 on behalf of the Central Bank. Two types of authori- zation are given: (1) imports with access to foreign exchange provided at rates determined during weekly fixing sessions; and (2) imports financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources (autorisation sans achat de devises). To obtain authorization, importers are required to fill out either an import form (for imports valued at less than $5,000 f.o.b.) or an import application request form (for imports valued at more than $5,000 f.o.b.), on which they must provide informa- tion on products to be imported, including price, quantity, quality, and financing terms. For imports w i th access to the auction market, au thor iza t ion is given only a f ter price, quality, and terms of f inanc ing ( for import credits) are verified. Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and mainly covers imports by four "mixed-econ- omy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; AREDOR, the diamond com- pany; and AUG, the gold company) and foreign embassies. All products are subject to a 12 percent turnover tax, custom duties (DFE) of 8 percent, and customs charges (DDE) of 7 percent, with the following exceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a 6 percent DFE and 2 percent DDE; and imports for the food industry, cement, and agriculture machinery are subject to an 8 percent DFE and a 2 percent DDE. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxury goods, and a sur tax of 30- 60 percent is levied on nonalcoholic beverages, cer- tain wines, and spirits. Imports of the four mixed enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6 percent levy. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require central bank authorization. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with compa- nies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to $800 a person a trip, w i th a maximum of four trips a calen- dar year; each application is considered individu- ally. Government s taff on official missions are permitted an allowance of $140 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is sub- mitted, residents may be granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or may be permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Monthly payments for family support through the official market may be made up to amounts determined on the merits of the case; for study abroad, the exchange allowance does not require official authorization and is provided without a limit with supporting documentation. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad and that certified dividends and royalties may be trans- ferred in fu l l. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings, and only for those contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. The exportation of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a person a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description for purposes of preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption, and identi- fying capital outflows. Exports of the mining sector are exempt from this requirement. For the following commodities, special authori- zation from designated agencies is required: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Planters may be granted special transfer privi- leges for the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or cit- rus fru i ts exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 25 percent of proceeds in foreign exchange deposits with commercial banks; this amount may be increased depending on the volume and type of products, especially with respect to gold and diamonds. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to retain all of their export proceeds abroad and may use the balances to pay for their imports and operating requirements and to service their external debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 Proceeds from Invisibles GUINEA Gold In principle, residents must surrender exchange proceeds accruing from invisibles if they do not hold foreign currency accounts. The importation of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permit- ted freely, subject to declaration on entry; residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks within 15 days of return. Certain residents, by vir- tue of their occupation, are authorized to deposit their foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency or convertible Guinean franc accounts. Transfers of foreign bank notes to third parties are subject to a fee of 1.5 percent. The importation of Guinean cur- rency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also pro- vides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the trans- fer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Small and medium- size enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive import tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of 8-10 years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the economy. The mini- mum foreign investment in Guinean enterprises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have con- trolling interests in enterprises requiring foreign investment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. The Central Bank purchases gold in Guinean francs at international prices; at the seller's request, the Central Bank may purchase 50 percent of out- put in foreign currency. Since the monetary reform of 1986, Guinea has issued fine silver commemora- tive coins of GF 10,000, which are legal tender. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restriction. Only the exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 1. Foreign exchange bureaus were permit- ted to operate. Imports and Import Payments August 3. The 25 percent advance deposit require- ment against customs duties was eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds June 30. Exporters were allowed to retain up to 25 percent of proceeds from exports in foreign exchange deposits with Guinean commercial banks. Proceeds from Invisibles January 2. Proceeds from foreign bank notes were subject to a surrender requirement of 20 percent. June 8. The 20 percent surrender requirement on proceeds from foreign bank notes was abolished and was replaced by a fee of 1.5 percent on transfers of foreign bank notes to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. There are two exchange markets: the official market and the free exchange market. In the official market, the external value of the peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar. The off ic ial rate is adjusted daily to keep the spread between the buying rate in the official and free markets at 5 percent. The difference between the buying and selling official exchange rates is limited to no more than 5 percent. In principle, the exchange rate in the free market is determined by supply and demand conditions, although the Central Bank of Guinea-Bissau has intervened occasionally. On December 31,1992, the official selling rate for the U.S. dollar was PG 9,088.333 per US$1, and the official selling rate for the Portuguese escudo (Esc) was PG 62.327 per Esc. 1. On the same date, the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in the free market were PG 9,088.333 and PG 9,308.333, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign currency in Guinea-Bissau. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank exercises control over foreign exchange transactions involving the use of foreign exchange belonging to or administered by it. For- eign exchange transactions effected by commercial banks with resources derived from sources other than those of the Central Bank are in general not controlled by the Central Bank. Residents are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange in their possession without revealing its sources. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in foreign currency, although certain external obligations have been settled with goods on a very few occasions in the past. Guinea-Bissau is a partic- ipant in the West African Clearinghouse, which includes the member countries of the Central Bank of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dTvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents may open demand and time accounts in foreign currency with commercial banks and may use balances on these accounts without restriction, except that they must give prior notice for withdrawals above certain pre-estab- lished limits. Residents may also maintain these accounts (1) if they are authorized to engage in for- eign currency transactions; or (2) if they receive income in foreign currency under contracts with nonresidents. Banks may pay interest of up to 4 percent a year on demand accounts in foreign cur- rency, whereas interest rates on time deposits may be negotiated freely. (At the end of 1991, these rates ranged from 6 percent to 8 percent.) Imports and Import Payments All imports, regardless of whether they involve use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license (Boletim de Registo Previo de Importagao) issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Since official availability of foreign exchange in the country is not considered when licenses are issued, import licenses are not a foreign exchange allocation instrument, and their possession does not guarantee the importers' access to the official exchange market. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically after verification of invoice prices for goods to be imported. Importers are free to arrange for payment through the banking system with their own foreign exchange or foreign exchange purchased on the parallel market. However, payments for imports with foreign exchange purchased from the Central Bank or administered by the Central Bank require authorization from the Central Bank, and authori- zation is granted on the basis of the priority of the products involved and the availability of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1991, the state monopoly over imports of petroleum and petroleum products was abolished. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 GUINEA-BISSAU Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles by the public sector at the official exchange rate are effected through the Cen- tral Bank. Payments for invisibles by the private sector take place at the freely determined exchange rate and may be made without restriction. These payments may take place through commercial banks and the foreign exchange house. Foreign travelers may take out on departure any unspent foreign exchange that they declared upon entry Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require a prior export license (Boletim de Regis to Previo de Exportagao). Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. As in the case of imports, prior licenses are intended primarily for statistical purposes, although they are also used to check the prices of exports. There are no products whose exportation is reserved solely for the public sector. In general, all exports are subject to a "customs services" tax of 5 percent. In addition, exports of cashew nuts are subject to a special tax, the rate of which has been reduced over the years and is cur- rently 25 percent. Agricultural exports are also sub- ject to a "rural property tax" (Contribui^ao Predial Rustica), at the rate of 2 percent on "processed" products and at the rate of 1 percent on "unpro- cessed" products. Special arrangements apply to exports to the member countries of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), to which Guinea- Bissau belongs; for example, exports to these coun- tries are exempt from the 5 percent customs ser- vices tax. (At the end of 1991, the arrangements had not yet come into effect.) Exporters are required to surrender 40 percent of proceeds to the Central Bank and the remainder to the commercial banks. Under the foreign exchange regulations that came into effect in 1991, neither residents nor npn- residents are required to sell to the Central Bank foreign exchange they receive from abroad, and they are free to sell foreign exchange in their pos- session on the free exchange market. Capital Foreign direct investments are governed by the Investment Code of 1985, which was amended most recently by Decree-Law 4/91, promulgated on September 30, 1991. Under the Investment Code, a set of incentives to foreign direct investments has been set, and foreign and domestic investments have been subject to the same terms with respect to access to domestic credit. The Investment Code pro- vides protection against nationalization of invest- ment and expropriation of assets and recognizes the right of foreign investors to transfer foreign cur- rency abroad in respect of profits (net of taxes), to sell or liquidate investments, to service loans obtained for project financing, and to make pay- ments for imported supply and technical assistance. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized by the appropriate government authorities. The Central Bank may engage in gold purchase and sale transactions with the public. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 4. The Central Bank simplified the exchange rate system, abolishing several exchange rates (interbank, public, and high-note denomina- tion and small-note denomination exchange rates) and adopting a single official exchange rate. December 1. The peso was pegged to the U.S. dollar instead of the escudo, and the difference between the buying and selling official exchange rates was reduced to 5 percent from 7.5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, the external value of which is determined freely by mar- ket forces in the cambio market. The Bank of Guyana conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cam- bio rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers in the cambio market on the date the transac- tion takes place. In accordance with the bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the Bank of Guyana quotes weekly rates for the CAR- ICOM currencies.1 On December 31, 1992, the aver- age buying and selling rates in the cambio market were G$122.28 and C$124.31, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Guyana quotes rates for pounds sterling and Canadian dollars on the basis of the U.S. dollar/ pound sterling cross rate quoted by the Bank of England and the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar cross rate quoted by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank of Guyana charges commissions at different rates on the purchase and sale of officially quoted currencies. Transactions effected through the Bank of Guy- ana are limited, on the receipts side, to exports of sugar and bauxite, and, on the payments side, to imports of fuel, gold, and sugar, and official debt- service payments. All other transactions are effected in the cambio market. There are no taxes or subsidies on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the official sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are pro- vided to certain deposits in blocked accounts. (See section on Nonresident Accounts, below.) Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 27,1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance, who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade, Tour- 1 For the operations of the CARICOM clearing facility, the Bank of Guyana sets rates for the CARICOM currencies every Friday on the basis of the average ra tes of the commercial banks and the five largest nonbank cambio dealers in the week ending the pre- ceding Wednesday. The major currencies to which this ra te applies are the Barbados dollar, Eastern Caribbean dollar, Jama i- can dollar, and Trinidad and Tobago dollar. ism and Industry is responsible for issuing import and export licenses. With the establishment of the cambio market under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licensing) Act (on March 13,1990), the Bank of Guyana, under the Exchange Control Act, suspended exchange control notices that related to (1) basic travel allow- ances; (2) correspondence courses; (3) subscription to clubs and societies, including entrance fees; (4) payment for periodicals, magazines, etc.; and (5) emigration. Also, until fu r ther notice, dealers are no longer authorized to accept deposits into the external payments deposit scheme for payment of imports from countries outside the CARICOM with- out approval from the Bank of Guyana. Under the Dealers in Foreign Currency (Licens- ing) Act, with the payment of a fee of G$250,000, individuals, partnerships, and companies may be licensed for a period of one year (renewable) to engage in foreign currency operations; these opera- tors are required to submit weekly returns of the transactions they conduct to the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an ex ternal account in Guyana dollars.2 Settle- ments with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through external accounts (in Guy- ana dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM coun try concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: external accounts and blocked accounts. External accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guy- ana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other external accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other exter- nal accounts, and for withdrawals by the account 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Guyana dollar. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 GUYANA holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (for example, certain capital pro- ceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978, blocked accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applica- tions for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rates of G$3.25/G$3.75 per US$1) for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984; partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$5.0 per US$1) for deposits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and the end of January 1987; partial exchange ra te guarantee (at the rate of G$10 per US$1) for deposits made between January 1987 and the end of March 1989; and no exchange rate guarantee for deposits made af ter March 1989. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain products are also pro- hibited from all non-CARICOM sources. These pro- hibitions are currently applicable to four categories of food, that is, unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed f ru it items. Permissible imports are subject to individual licensing, but the following commodities are exempt: passengers' baggage, household and personal effects, bona fide patterns and samples that have a stipulated f.o.b. value, par- cel post items of a certain value imported by indi- viduals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. Intra-CARICOM trade is free of import duties, quotas, and import-licensing arrangements. The Common External Tariff (GET) of the CARICOM Common Market is applied to imports from outside the CARICOM Common Market. Guyana is a party to an agreement among the CARICOM member states to implement, commencing January 1,1993, a phased reduction in the GET rate structure from a band of 0-45 percent to 5-20 percent by January 1, 1997. There are no import quotas. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry grants import licenses automatically. For imports transacted through the Bank of Guyana, foreign exchange approval is required. Official foreign exchange is allocated independently of the issuance of import licenses by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Industry Before the introduction of the cambio market, all applica- tions for official foreign exchange were required to be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve require- ment against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Import licenses are not required for the following goods: (1) goods imported by indi- viduals for personal use; (2) machinery and equip- ment to be used in pursuit of self-employment; and (3) goods to be used by noncommercial, nonagricul- tural, nonindustrial, or social organizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries may be freely effected through the cambio market. Foreign exchange for tourist travel and education may be purchased in the cambio market without restric- tion. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject to an exit tax of G$l,000 on departure. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign or local currency that may be taken out for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpo- ration, and bauxite and alumina, only by Linmine, Bermine and Aroaima Bauxite Company. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agencies. Rice may be exported by the Guyana Rice Export Board and the private sector. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that proceeds of exports are repatriated and offered for sale to a licensed dealer. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$20,000 in value. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits some exporters to retain a certain percentage of export proceeds. The retention ratio is 100 percent for bauxite, 17.5 percent for sugar, and 20 percent for gold. Retained foreign exchange may be used for imports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements and may be retained or sold in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 215 cambio market without restriction. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign or domestic currency notes; travelers entering the country with foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000 must declare the amount. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries may borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. There are no restrictions on repatriation of capital. Residents and nonresidents have unlimited access to the cambio market for repatriation of funds. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enter- prises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the financing of specific projects and, in some instances, for working capital purposes. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, produc- ers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized deal- ers, producers of gold, and industrial users require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments October 29. Guyana signed an agreement with other CARICOM member states to implement, com- mencing January 1,1993, a phased reduction in the GET rate structure from a band of 0-45 percent to 5-20 percent by Janua ry 1,1997. Payments for Invisibles September 1. The requirement that nonresidents must pay their hotel expenses in foreign currency was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, and its external value is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is gen- erally accepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in exchange markets abroad. Commercial banks may open accounts in foreign exchange in favor of residents; these accounts may not be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovern- mental organizations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 22,1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange sys- tem is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank). Article 52 of the decree- law of September 28, 1991 provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent on any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank established in Haiti.1 Apart from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from non- residents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Four products (beans, maize, sugar, and pork) are subject to licensing requirements with quantitative restrictions. Gasoline is subject to a tariff rate of 57.8 percent; maize, millet, and flour, to a tariff rate of 50 percent; equipment, raw materials, and some inputs, to a tariff rate of 10 percent or lower. Rice is subject to a specific duty of G 12.50 a pound. Phar- maceutical imports are exempt from import duties. 1 As of the end of 1991, the tax was not being enforced. Customs tariffs and the value-added tax applicable to most imports are calculated on the basis of the market exchange rate. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a consular fee of 3 percent, which is payable in Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Forty percent of all export proceeds and foreign exchange receipts of maritime agencies and nongovernmental organizations must be surren- dered to the central bank through the commercial banks at the reference rate.2 Exchange houses are required to surrender all foreign exchange transfers to the central bank.3 Exporters are required to nego- tiate documentary draf ts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export pro- ceeds. The customs administration does not grant export approval unless those draf ts are cleared by the central bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 275 on tickets and an airport tax of G 125. Diplomats and staff members of international organizations accredited in Haiti are exempt. Proceeds from invis- ibles are not required to be surrendered. There are no limitations on the importation or exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permit- ted, but capital may be imported freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decree of October 30, 1982 and requires prior government approval. Permission is normally not granted to nonresidents to invest in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6,1973, private banks oper- ating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 2 The reference rate is the weighted average of the exchange rates of all commercial banks, money brokers, and cambios. 3 As of December 31, 1991, only the surrender requirement applicable to export proceeds was being enforced. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 217 85 percent of their liabilities in the form of domestic assets for local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domesti- cally and to export gold in the form of coins, min- eral dust, or bars. Gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be imported and exported only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require, in addition, prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, before customs clearance. However, com- mercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira. With the exception of debt-equity conversion, all authorized exchange transactions are conducted in an interbank market, and the exchange rate is determined by supply and demand conditions. On December 31, 1992, the buying rate in the interbank market was L 5.82 per U.S. dollar. Debt conversions are conducted at the rate of L 2 per US$1. Purchases and sales of the currencies of other Central American countries are effected on the basis of quotations in lempiras, taking into account the value of those cur- rencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the interbank mar- kets of the countries concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, effective July 1,1950. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Honduras administers exchange control regulations. Exporters are required to present a declaration to the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE), which maintains an import registry for statistical purposes only. Foreign investment regu- lations are administered by the Secretary of Econ- omy and Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of payment to or from nonresidents. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mecha- nisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. Foreign currency accounts may be maintained with domestic banks without restriction. Banks are required to hold these deposits in (1) foreign cur- rency notes in their vaults, (2) special accounts at cor- respondent banks abroad, (3) investments in high- liquidity foreign instruments, or (4) advance export- or import-financing instruments. Registration is required for all imports valued at more than $5,000. Imports of arms and similar items require a license issued by the Ministry of Defense. The financing of imports must be channeled through the banking system, either with foreign exchange purchased in the interbank market or with credits obtained abroad (except for financing obtained through export advances or government credit agreements with external institutions). Imports are subject to customs duties, ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent. In addition, certain goods are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 percent of the c.i.f. import value.2 The duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes, industrial processing zones, and firms registered in the regime of temporary imports (a drawback regime) are exempt from cus- toms duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are required to be registered only for sta- tistical purposes. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered either to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institutions. Subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 30 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized foreign exchange obligations. Proceeds from exports of coffee and bananas must be surrendered within 25 days; the surrender period for other exports ranges from 25 to 85 days. The commercial banks are required to trans- fer to the Central Bank 30 percent of their foreign exchange purchases; one-third of this amount (10 percent of purchases) may be sold freely, with a maximum limit of $1,500 a transaction. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Hondu- ran Coffee Institute. Exports of lumber are chan- neled through the Honduran Forest Development Corporation. 1 Over 1,600 products from other Central American countries are exempt from customs duties, except for the import surcharge of 5 percent. 2 Effective Ju ly 17,1992, products from other Central American countries were exempted from this surcharge. In December 1992, the Congress approved the elimination of this surcharge on more than 500 customs positions. This measure will be effective in Jan- ua ry 1993. Fu ll elimination is expected by mid-1993. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 219 Bananas are subject to an export tax at the rate of $0.50 for each 40-pound box, but the tax is refunded for exports that exceed a certain ceiling. Sugar is sub- ject to an export tax if its export price exceeds a spec- ified level. Coffee exports whose f.o.b. value is more than $70 per quintal (100 kilograms) are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All purchases of more than $2,500 in foreign exchange require prior approval from the Central Bank, and all buyers are required to file an applica- tion stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. Persons traveling abroad may purchase for- eign currency in the interbank market without prior authorization from the Central Bank. No restrictions exist on the importation of foreign bank notes by travelers. Depending on the availability of foreign exchange, transfers of dividends and profits may be delayed. Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and the approval of the Central Bank are required for all activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and its transfer abroad for investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretariat of Coordination, Planning, and Budget, and the Central Bank is required for public sector foreign borrowing, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector also requires approval from the Central Bank. Exter- nal debt contracts must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the servicing of duly registered and approved external debt only. Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms and foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors without restriction, with the exception of defense-related industries, hazardous industries, and small-scale industry and commerce. Invest- ments in hazardous industries require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Secretary of Economy and Trade, and repa- triation of registered capital and transfers of divi- dends and profits earned on such capital are not restricted. Investment insurance may be arranged in Honduras or abroad without restriction. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Economy; for most articles, licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement February 13. The National Assembly approved leg- islation that legalized the establishment of foreign exchange houses and authorized them to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates for all transactions, except for purchases of export pro- ceeds. The Central Bank would purchase export pro- ceeds in the interbank market at the average exchange rate of the preceding five days in this mar- ket. Commercial banks would continue to buy and sell foreign exchange at the interbank market rate and would be required to transfer 40 percent of their purchases to the Central Bank. The Central Bank would meet its remaining foreign exchange require- ments with purchases in the market and would intervene, if necessary, to smooth out fluctuations in the market exchange rate. June 18. Commercial banks were authorized to purchase and sell foreign exchange at freely negoti- ated exchange rates. The Central Bank would pur- chase foreign exchange from commercial banks at a rate equal to the weighted average of the buying rates in the interbank market on the day of pur- chase and for the previous four working days. The percentage of foreign exchange to be transferred from commercial banks to the Central Bank was reduced from 40 percent to 30 percent. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The range of customs duties was further reduced to 5-20 percent. July 17. The import surcharge of 10 percent on the c.i.f. import value levied on certain imports was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HONDURAS eliminated for products originating from Central American countries. December 1. Congress approved the elimination of the 10 percent import surcharge on more than 500 customs positions. This measure would become effective in January 1993, and the surcharge would be eliminated by mid-1993. Exports and Export Proceeds May 4. The period for surrendering the proceeds from exports of coffee and bananas was shortened to 25 days from 30 days and that for other exports from a range of 30-120 days to 25-85 days. June 23. The system of export permits was elimi- nated, and exports would be required to be regis- tered only for statistical purposes. October 1. The method of assessing the export tax on coffee was modified. The tax would be calcu- lated at a rate of 7 percent on the export value (f.o.b.) in excess of $70 per quintal. October 4. The proportion of foreign exchange pur- chases the commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank was reduced to 30 percent from 40 percent. The commercial banks would be allowed to sell up to one-third of this amount (10 percent of purchases) freely, with a maximum limit of $1,500 a transaction. November 5. The export tax on coffee was raised to 20 percent. Capital June 20. A law governing foreign direct invest- ments became effective. Under the law, repatriation of capital and remittances of dividends and profits would be unrestricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Since October 17, 1983, the Hong Kong dollar has been linked to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of HK$7.80 per US$1. Under this linked exchange rate arrangement, the two note-issuing banks must deliver to the Exchange Fund an amount in U.S. dollars that is equivalent to the local currency issued at the linked exchange rate, as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues. The Exchange Fund, in turn, issues certificates of indebtedness denominated in Hong Kong dollars. Similarly, the banks may redeem U.S. dollars from the Exchange Fund by delivering local currency at the same linked exchange rate. Other licensed banks wishing to acquire (or exchange) local currency notes may purchase (or sell) them against an equivalent amount of U.S. dollars at the linked exchange rate with one of the note-issuing banks. For other trans- actions, the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar is set in the exchange market at freely negotiated rates. However, the possibility of interest rate arbi- trage and currency arbitrage, together with the capability of the Exchange Fund to intervene in the market, tends to keep the market rate in line with the linked rate. On December 31, 1992, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar was HK$7.741 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on private sector initiatives, and the Gov- ernment has no official role. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Direc- tor-General of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong 1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment. and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of restrictions, except for those restrictions maintained for reasons of health, safety, environmental protection, or security. Among the latter, quantitative restrictions are placed on the importation of rice to ensure an adequate supply for domestic consumption. All imports are free of duties, although an excise tax for revenue purposes is levied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and tobacco, alcoholic liquors, methyl alcohol, some hydrocarbon oils, nonalcoholic bev- erages, and cosmetics. With a few exceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importa- tion (and exportation) in respect of each consign- ment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses and certificates of origin are required for certain textile products to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations under the Multifiber Arrangement and under a number of bilateral textile agreements. Other restrictions are maintained for reasons of health, ecology, safety, or security. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency and need not be repatri- ated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Corporate earnings (excluding those of financial institutions) on invest- ments, including interest on bank deposits in Hong Kong, are subject to the profits tax, but earnings from foreign investments are not taxed. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is exempt from the profits tax. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may freely bring in and take out any amount 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 HONG KONG in domestic or foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, to conduct banking, or insur- ance and securities dealings. Otherwise, all over- seas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry of the Registrar General's Department within one month of establishing a place of business in Hong Kong. Gold There are free and unrestricted markets for gold and gold futures that are open to residents and non- residents. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form and amount in Hong Kong or abroad. Commemorative gold coins of HK$1,000 are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the for int is deter- mined on the basis of a currency basket comprising U.S. dollars (50 percent) and European Currency Units (ECUs) (50 percent). The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, principally in light of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. The official exchange rate is fixed daily around noon against the basket and calculated for the ECU and 20 convertible currencies,1 and the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. The official spot buying and selling rates are maintained within margins of ±0.25 percent; licensed banks are free to quote their own rates within this margin for trans- actions in the interbank market and for their cus- tomers. However, customers have the right to choose in advance whether the actual interbank exchange rate or the official rate will apply to their transactions with commercial banks. The official spot buying and selling rates in U.S. dollars on December 31, 1992 were Ft 83.77 and Ft 84.17, respectively, per US$1. Banks are free to set the exchange rates for currency notes and traveler's checks. As a transitional measure, transferable and clear- ing rubles continue to be used (1) for the settlement of certain outstanding financial claims related to contracts concluded before the end of 1990, and (2) for other settlements that are to be phased out. For outstanding claims, official exchange rates are quoted for the transferable and clearing ruble. At the end of December 1992, the middle rate for the forint against 1 transferable or clearing ruble was Ft 27.50. The NBH does not quote the exchange rate of the forint for currencies of countries belonging to the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA); these exchange rates are freely deter- mined by the banking system. Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars. In addition to the above, exchange rates are quoted for bank notes and trave ler's checks in Greek drachmas. Agreements between Hungary and the Slovak Republic permit their national currencies to be con- verted into each other's currency through their respective banking systems for the purpose of tourist travel between the two countries at exchange rates freely determined by the commercial banks and exchange offices; they also stipulate limits on the importation of bank notes by travelers. Another agreement, concluded at the end of September 1991, extends the arrangement to payments through inter- bank settlements for a list of noncommercial transac- tions. According to the agreement of the two central banks, the outstanding balances on noncommercial transactions can be settled by payments for commer- cial transactions. A free exchange market exists for the currencies of Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, and the states of the former U.S.S.R., with trading organized by one or two organizations. The commercial banks may engage in forward transactions with terms ranging from seven days to one year, and forward exchange rates may be nego- tiated freely between the banks and their custom- ers. In practice, however, only two to three banks provide forward transactions for their main cus- tomers. The commercial banks may also enter into foreign currency swaps with the NBH. Administration of Control Authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions through the NBH, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions. The NBH may entrust other agencies, such as banking institu- tions and travel agencies, with the performance of specified tasks. All economic organizations and private persons in Hungary are entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies and Hungarian forint af ter registering with the NBH (the Ministry of International Economic Relations before Janu- ary 1, 1992), provided foreign trade is part of their business activities when incorporated. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Hungary notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), it had imposed certain restrictions on the making of payments and 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 HUNGARY transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hungary has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set fo r th in those agreements. If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is normally made in a convertible currency officially quoted in Hungary or in Hungarian forint. At the end of 1992, bilateral agreements were maintained with Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and Viet Nam for the settlement of outstanding transferable or clearing ruble balances with shipments of goods. The transferable balance with the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic was settled in 1992, and with Poland, in early 1993. The bilateral agreement with the former Czech and Slovak Federal Repub- lic provided for the settlement of any remaining balance in the national currency of the debtor coun- try. In November 1992, Hungary concluded an agreement with the Russian Federation on the set- tlement of outstanding transferable ruble balances of the states of the former U.S.S.R. taken over by the Russian Federation. Part of the balance will be set- tled with shipments of goods and the remainder in convertible currency, beginning in 1994, according to the agreed timetable. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons as well as resident natural persons may maintain convert- ible currency accounts freely at the authorized com- mercial banks. Resident juridical persons may open convertible currency accounts only with funds orig- inating from specific sources, such as capital paid in convertible currency by the foreign owners of joint- venture companies or donations paid in convertible currency for foundations, church and social organi- zations, and budgetary institutions. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee in case of conversion. The interest rates on deposits are determined by the commercial banks. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Imports and Exports Beginning in December 1990, a general authori- zation was granted to all entities to import and export without specific license except for a negative list of items. Specific licenses are granted by the Ministry of International Economic Relations. Importers have an automatic right to purchase foreign exchange through the banking system for all bona f ide imports. When applying for foreign exchange, importers have to complete a declara- tion, stating the use of foreign exchange. The NBH conducts a random checking of banks and enter- prises for compliance with the regulations. Commercial banks may enter into deferred pay- ment arrangements on behalf of their clients with- out restriction for up to one year; arrangements exceeding three months must be reported to the NBH by the client. These arrangements need not be secured by bank obligations. For deferred pay- ments of over one year, permission from the NBH is required. Export proceeds must be received in officially quoted convertible currencies or Hungarian forint. In the former case, such proceeds must be surren- dered against Hungarian forint to a licensed bank within eight days of receipt of the foreign exchange. Certain exemptions are granted, subject to specific approval by the NBH. There is no limit on the time during which export earnings must be repatriated following the shipment of goods. Enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to provide the NBH with semiannual reports showing claims out- standing in connection with their export activities. The collection of export contracts exceeding Ft 4 million must be guaranteed either by letter of credit, bank guarantee, or bank collection. Export proceeds received in forint by nonresidents may be deposited in foreign trade accounts with licensed banks but may not be converted into foreign cur- rency. Such proceeds must be used for payments for goods and services acquired in Hungary or for operating expenses of foreign firms or living expenses of persons staying in Hungary. Noncommercial imports by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15 percent based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 5,000. Residents employed by a domestic agency may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings if stationed abroad for more than one year. Certain exports are prohibited for sanitary, secu- rity, and other noneconomic reasons. An export subsidy may be provided for exports of agricultural ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 225 products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies or Hungarian forint. The value-added tax paid on goods exported is refunded. The refund and the subsidy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Hungary has negotiated new trade agreements with former CMEA countries based on free market principles and providing for settlements in convert- ible currencies at world market prices, with no offi- cial overdraft, credit, or clearing facilities. As of December 1992, new trade agreements were in effect with Albania, Armenia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Cambodia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, Ukraine, Uzbeki- stan, and Viet Nam. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Other transactions require general or individual authorization, irrespective of their amount, mostly from the NBH and, in some special cases, from the Ministry of Finance or other competent authority. Foreign exchange for related payments is made available automatically once the underlying transactions have been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or a certain proportion of turnover is given to enter- prises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the NBH or the Ministry of International Economic Relations. Exporters are permitted to spend for business travel a certain portion of export earnings based on the annual value of exports. There are eight percent- age bands, ranging from 50 percent of exports up to Ft 4.9 million, up to 0.7 percent of exports between Ft 400 and 499.9 million, with a ninth band of 2 percent of exports exceeding Ft 500 million. The limit for importers is 1 percent of convertible currency imports. The minimum allowance is Ft 100,000 (or the amount spent in the previous year) if the entity has an income from exports. Separate allowances are established for financial institutions (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent); municipal councils (the limit applied in 1991 plus 15 percent); parliamentary parties (4 percent of the parliamen- tary allocation); social organizations (8 percent of budgetary allocations or 5 percent of receipts from members); package tour operators and hotels (1 percent of net convertible currency receipts, with a minimum of Ft 100,000); other legal and nonlegal entities (20 days' business travel expense); budgetary institutions and universities (unlimited); and institu- tions with representatives abroad (the amount spent the previous year plus 15 percent). In addition, these institutions are free to pay for membership and par- ticipation fees at conferences, excluding hotel and incidental expenses, which must be covered by sepa- rate allowances for business travel. Up to the end of 1991, travel agencies were licensed to use up to 50 percent of the previous year's net convertible income for package tours; since 1992, this limitation has been abolished in favor of a liberalized system of tours through travel agencies (Government Decree No. 4/1992 of January 13,1992). Up to June 1992, foreign exchange allowances for travel were granted to passport holders in convert- ible currencies, subject to an annual limit of $50 a year. For passport holders over 14 years of age, the allowance was available annually or up to the total amount of unused previous annual allowances. In addition, a bonus of $50 or $100 would have been available in 1992, and would be available in 1993 if the allowances had not been used in 1990 or 1991, respectively. Since July 1, 1992, exchange allow- ances for tourist travel have been increased to the equivalent of $350 for passport holders over 14 years of age and to $150 for those under 14 years of age. Unused amounts cannot be carried over to subsequent years. Those travelers who used more than one-half of the total allowance available for the three-year period 1988-90 could not receive fur ther allowances in 1991-92. Additional foreign exchange for the purchase of gasoline abroad is available only for the handicapped. Tickets to Europe and to the Middle East may be bought with forint without limit; tickets for overseas flights may be bought once a year. Additional allowances for private travel are granted through travel agents. Package tours may be purchased freely in forint, with a daily cash allowance of Ft 500-1,800 with no limit on the number of days. For nonpackage tours purchased through travel agents, travel and hotel expenses, half or fu ll board, and programs can be paid fu l ly in forint, plus the above-mentioned cash allowance, with a 14-day annual limit. After returning to Hungary, travelers must recon- vert into for int the convertible currencies they did not spend abroad, with the exception of Ft 5,000 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 HUNGARY person, which is generally exempt from the surren- der requirement. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, but, to cover their anticipated expenditures while in Hungary, they must have a certain amount of money at their disposal, which is checked at the borders. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. Foreign travelers may take out of the country without restriction all of the articles purchased in Hungary with forint converted from convertible currency; conversion into forint must, however, be verified with presen- tation of records. Since August 1, 1992, residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 10,000 a person (in denominations not exceeding Ft 1,000); the corre- sponding limit for nonresidents is Ft 2,000 a person. Coins made of precious metal may not be taken out of the country at all. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents or from con- vertible currency accounts of the person in question (see section on Resident and Nonresident Accounts, above). Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other than those employed in joint ven- tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enter- prises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their taxed income. Capital Under the new Central Banking Law approved by the Parliament on December 1, 1991, financial institutions must report all foreign borrowing to the NBH. Foreign borrowing of other legal entities as well as granting extension of foreign credits by the Hungarian financial institutions is subject to the approval of the NBH. For nonfinancial legal enti- ties, foreign borrowing with maturities of less than one year or with interest rates in excess of 2 percent over LIBOR is normally not permitted. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of International Economic Relations, and the President of the NBH. No license is required from the foreign exchange authority for commercial credits in compliance with the direc- tives. The NBH may refinance these credits from its own resources. Licensed commercial banks are per- mitted to reinvest abroad up to 30 percent of their foreign borrowing in foreign assets with maturities of up to six months. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established without the approval of any ministry or of other authorities. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases, the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are exempt from several regulations. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may qualify as foreign investment. Joint ven- tures are granted a 60 percent allowance on the profit tax in the first five years of operation and 40 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year, provided the equity capital exceeds Ft 50 million, the foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent, and more than one-half of proceeds come from the production of goods; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a reduction in the profit tax. Joint ventures in preferred fields of activities, for example, tourism, are granted 100 percent of profit tax allowance for five years and pay 60 percent thereafter until the end of the tenth year. The right to these incentives may be obtained until December 31, 1993. The inputs imported by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, if the joint venture is liquidated, of the invested capital and capital gains. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the NBH covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungarian banking institutions covering the fulfill- ment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the Ministry of International Economic Relations. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Gifts (movable property) from nonresidents to residents in Hungary in excess of Ft 10,000 a per- son are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, build- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 227 ings, or other immovable property in Hungary, except through inheritance. Joint ventures can own real estate necessary for their activities without authorization. Outward capital transfers by resident natural persons are not generally approved. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, trans- fers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the approval of the NBH. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country assets valued up to Ft 500,000, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident forint account or deposit. In the case of emigrants, the licenses for transfers of assets are granted by the customs authorities. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the NBH, in concurrence with the com- petent authority if for industrial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted before 1945, must be offered to the NBH for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically autho- rized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the NBH. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 1. An interbank foreign exchange market was established in which all licensed commercial banks and the NBH participate. Licensed banks were per- mitted to freely buy and sell foreign exchange against forint at rates not exceeding the margins set by the NBH, subject to a 30 percent limit on an aggregate open position for all foreign currency, including forward positions, measured against cap- ital. Customers were allowed to request that their transactions with commercial banks be executed at the official buying or selling rate. The official mid- dle rate would be determined at noon every busi- ness day, and the margins for exchange rate fluctuations would be set at ±0.25 percent. The NBH would be ready to buy and sell foreign exchange in unlimited quantities at the official buy- ing and selling rate. Prescription of Currency March 13. A payment agreement was concluded with Viet Nam for the settlement of outstanding nonconvertible ruble balances through shipments of goods and payments in convertible currencies. March 18. A payment agreement was concluded with Cambodia for the settlement of outstanding nonconvertible ruble balances through shipments of goods and payments in convertible currencies. July 1. Resident and nonresident exporters were allowed to accept domestic currency, and nonresi- dent holders of such proceeds were allowed to open foreign trade forint accounts. Balances in these accounts, however, were prohibited from being converted into foreign exchange but may be used by residents to pay for goods bought in Hungary or for their living expenses while staying in Hungary November 12. A payment agreement was con- cluded with the Russian Federation for the settle- ment of outstanding nonconvertible ruble balances through shipments of goods and payments in con- vertible currencies. Imports and Exports January 1. The global import quota for consumer goods subject to import licensing for 1992 was set at $750 million, and the number of automobiles allowed to be imported was established at 140,000. March 1. The interim association agreement with the European Community entered into effect. March 2. A new trade agreement was concluded with Uzbekistan. March 16. A new trade agreement was concluded with Viet Nam. March 19. A new trade agreement was concluded with Cambodia. April 13. A new trade agreement was concluded with Armenia. May 28. A new trade agreement was concluded with Estonia. May 29. A new trade agreement was concluded with Latvia. June 26. New trade agreements were concluded with Kazakhstan and Moldova. July 1. The requirements to secure import con- tracts by a letter of credit or bank gua ran tee and to deposit the fo r int equivalent of deferred pay- ment arrangements unde r taken by commercial banks on behalf of their clients with the NBH were abolished. The contracting of deferred pay- ment agreements for up to one year was permit- ted, but such agreements exceeding three months must be reported to the NBH by the client. For ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 HUNGARY de fe r red -payment agreements exceeding one year, permission of the NBH was required. Expo rt proceeds were required to be received in officially quoted convertible currencies or in fo r in t. In the fo rmer case, export proceeds were required to be sold against fo r int to a fu l ly licensed commercial bank. November 2. A new trade agreement was con- cluded with Georgia. December 21. The Central European Free Trade Agreement w i th the Czech Republic, Poland, and the Slovak Republic was signed (the agreements entered 1993). into force provisionally on March 1, Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles July 1. Travel allowances for tourism were raised to the equivalent of $350 a person a year. Official travel was subject to the same allowances as those applicable to business travel. August 1. The limit on the exportation and impor- tation of forint bank notes by residents without licenses was raised from Ft 2,000 a person to Ft 10,000. The corresponding limit for nonresidents was raised from Ft 500 to Ft 2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of January 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the external value of which is pegged to a trade- weighted basket of currencies consisting of the Jap- anese yen, the U.S. dollar, and the European Cur- rency Unit. Because Iceland has no organized foreign exchange market,1 the Central Bank of Ice- land quotes the daily rate of the krona, which is binding for all exchange transactions conducted on that day. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates were ISK 63.84 and ISK 64.00, respec- tively, per US$1, the principal trading currency in Iceland. Rates for other currencies are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign exchange markets. A tax at the rate of 45 percent is levied on the fees banks charge for transfers of foreign exchange currency abroad? Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 19,1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce, after con- sulting with the Central Bank, has ultimate responsi- bility for matters concerning import and foreign exchange regulations. It regulates foreign exchange transactions and exchange control, including capital controls, and ensures that all foreign exchange due to residents from commercial transactions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Exports come under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and For- eign Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Iceland notified the Fund on July 31, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- 1 Since May 28, 1993, exchange rates have been determined in the interbank ma rket in which the Central Bank, three commer- cial banks, and the Icebank participate. The krona will remain pegged to a currency basket, but exchange rates will be allowed to f l u c t u a te ±2.25 percent against the rate fixed da i ly in the inter- bank market. 2This tax will be g radua l ly reduced in the next two years and abolished on J a n u a ry 1,1996. tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in con- vertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar and with several other countries in eastern and southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in pounds sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in kronur in domestic banks and transfer the bal- ances abroad without limitation. Nonresidents may freely open accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency. Individual banks must notify the Central Bank of the opening of all nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without an import license. The main exemptions are live ani- mals and certain agricultural products. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state trading arrangements. Some fresh vege- tables, potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources that require a license, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when it is issued. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange per- mit before shipment from abroad but must present import documents to domestic banks to obtain for- eign exchange. For imports that require an individ- ual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle and the engine capac- ity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 ICELAND a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax depending on the alcohol content and volume. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for individual shipments for up to one year af ter the date of arrival at an Icelandic port. The maturity must conform to general practices in international trade for the goods involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for services rendered to residents by nonresidents and the remittance of interest, divi- dends, rents, and other forms of income from capi- tal are completely free, but bona fide documents must be submitted to the banks. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Icelandic bank notes in any denomi- nation that they have legally acquired. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs and Foreign Trade. The shipping documents must be lodged with a domestic bank, and export proceeds must be surrendered without undue delay. Exporters may deposit business-related for- eign exchange outlays with a domestic or foreign bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commer- cial nature must be surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes in any amount and in any denomination that they have legally acquired. Capital Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regu- lated, in accordance with legislation that entered into force on March 25, 1991, as follows: (1) nonresidents are free to make investments in Iceland, subject to the conditions laid down in general legislation gov- erning foreign investment or sector-specific legisla- tion; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish pro- cessing; (3) only Icelandic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic citizens, or domestically registered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Ice- landic citizens may acquire the right to harness wa- terfalls and geothermic energy. The same restrictions may apply to power production and distribution companies; '(4) investment by nonresidents in do- mestic airlines is restricted to 49 percent; (5) in- vestment by nonresidents in domestic incorporated commercial banks is restricted to 25 percent, but for- eign commercial banks have been allowed to open branches in Iceland since January 1,1992; (6) total in- vestment by a single nonresident or by financially linked nonresidents in excess of ISK 250 million a year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Total investment by nonresidents in any sector is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce; and (7) in all cases, nonresidents must satisfy a reciprocity requirement in order to invest in Iceland. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legislation stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be resident Icelandic citizens. In many cases, the relevant minis- ter may grant exceptions to such requirements. A foreign citizen who has been an Icelandic resident for at least one year has the same status as an Icelandic citizen in that respect. The legislation on joint stock companies3 stipu- lates that the majority of founders must reside in Ice- land for at least one year before the company is established. The managing director and the majority of the members of the board of directors of a com- pany that has been established and is operating in Iceland must be residents. However, the Minister of Commerce may grant exceptions to this requirement. Foreign governments, local authorities, and other public authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the Cen- tral Bank. The legislation on the ownership and use of real estate4 stipulates that for joint stock companies to own real estate, they must be registered in Iceland, at least 80 percent must be owned by Icelandic citi- zens, and all of the members of the board of direc- tors must be Icelandic citizens or have resided in Iceland for at least five years. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. 3 Act No. 32 of May 12,1978. 4 Act No. 19 of Ap r il 6,1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 231 Residents are allowed to obtain long-term credits for general financing purposes and provide long- term credits to nonresidents. Forward agreements, futures, options, and swaps are free, provided that an underlying international trade or capital transac- tion exists. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for less than one year are considered on their merits. Suppliers' cred- its with a maturity of up to 12 months may be con- tracted without restriction. Portfolio investments abroad are permitted up to ISK 750,000. Residents must effect all transactions in foreign securities through a licensed resident bro- ker who is a member of the Icelandic Securities Exchange. Members of the Icelandic Securities Exchange may invest mutual funds in foreign secu- rities up to ISK 150 million. Residents who have lawfully acquired foreign exchange may maintain accounts with nonresident institutions up to ISK 3.75 million. Individuals may make outward transfers, such as gifts, of up to ISK 200,000 free of charge.5 Nonresidents may freely acquire listed Icelandic securities and may freely transfer abroad the inter- est on, and proceeds from the sale of, securities. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 3. A new currency basket consisting of the ECU (76 percent), the U.S. dollar (18 percent), and the Japanese yen (6 percent) was introduced. Administration of Control March 1. The Central Bank Act was amended, permitting the Central Bank to let the exchange rate 5 Ceilings on outward direct investment and purchases of real estate abroad were eliminated on January 1,1993. Current ceilings on portfolio investment abroad will continue to be in force until the Agreement on the European Economic Area enters into force with respect to Iceland. Ceilings on short-term capital transfers other than trade credits will be abolished on January 1,1995. of the krona be determined in the foreign exchange market. Domestic branches of joint-stock banks were authorized to deal in foreign exchange. April 1. The Foreign Exchange Act was amended, whereby enforcement of the requirement that domestic residents surrender foreign exchange was transferred to the Ministry of Commerce. (The amendment was intended to introduce a basis for an interbank market in foreign exchange.) Capital January 1. The limits on deposits in foreign banks by domestic entities were increased to ISK 3.75 mil- lion from ISK 1.5 million. The amount that domestic entities are authorized to borrow abroad was increased to ISK 7.5 million from ISK 5.625 million. (These limits were abolished at the beginning of 1993.) Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The 45 percent special tax on the spread between buying and selling rates quoted by banks was abolished, and the tax levied on the fees banks charge for transfers of foreign exchange abroad will be reduced gradually over the next two years and abolished on January 1,1996. Capital January 1. A new Foreign Exchange Act entered into force, under which all foreign exchange trans- actions and capital transactions would be free of restriction unless explicitly prohibited by the provi- sions of the act. Ceilings on direct investments and purchases of real estate abroad were abolished, and all restrictions on long-term borrowing abroad by residents and long-term lending by residents to nonresidents were removed. The act granted the Minister of Commerce the authority to restrict cer- tain long-term capital transfers until the Agreement on the European Economic Area enters into force with respect to Iceland, scheduled for January 1, 1994. The restrictions on all short-term capital trans- fers other than trade credits would remain, but they would be liberalized beginning January 1,1994 and abolished on January 1,1995. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of March 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Since March 1,1993, the exchange rate of the rupee has been determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India purchases spot U.S. dollars from any authorized person at its designated offices/ branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. It does not normally purchase spot pounds sterling, deutsche mark, or Japanese yen, and it does not purchase forward any currency. The Reserve Bank sells spot U.S. dollars to any authorized person at its designated offices/branches for meeting foreign exchange payments at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate only for the fol- lowing purposes: (1) debt-service payments on behalf of the Government of India; (2) as a transitional arrangement: (a) for meeting 40 percent of the value of imports under advance licenses, imprest licenses, and replenishment licenses for imports of raw materials used for the production of gems and jewelry for export, in accordance with the instructions issued by the central Government, and (b) for meeting the full value of imports under Exim Scrips and Import Replenishment Licenses (REP) and other licenses that are treated on par with Exim Scrips. The Reserve Bank does not sell forward any cur- rency to authorized dealers but may enter into swap transactions, under which it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for two to six months. The Reserve Bank bears the exchange risk involved in the operation of the Foreign Currency Nonresi- dent Accounts Scheme. Purchases and sales of U.S. dollars are made by the Reserve Bank in multi- ples of $5,000, with a minimum of $25,000. Exchange rates against other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the U.S. dollar with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase and sell currencies of the member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU)1 at rates determined on the basis of the Reserve Bank's refer- ence rate for the rupee, which is calculated with ref- erence to the rates prevailing in the interbank market around noon and the SDR-U.S. dollar rate published by the IMF. Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the Reserve Bank does not deal in Nepalese rupees. Authorized dealers may maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies/' which are divided into two groups: Group A consists of 20 listed currencies,2 and Group B consists of other foreign currencies that are convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permitted to deal spot or forward in any permitted currency. Forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. On March 2,1993, the indic- ative market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were $3.1180 buying (clean) and $3.1150 sell- ing per Rs 100; the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for U.S. dollars was $3.1280 per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides swap transactions to authorized dealers, under which it purchases spot U.S. dollars and sells forward for two to six months. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid to up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dol- lars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other con- vertible currencies, cover is provided at the discre- tion of the ECGC. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- tor General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). 2Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Ma lays ian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 233 Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries3 and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Indian rupees through appropriate clearing accounts. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any permitted currency Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the accounts of banks situated in any country in the group; the accounts must be maintained with an authorized dealer or in any permitted currency. However, spe- cial rules may apply in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. All pay- ments on account of current international transac- tions between India and other members of the ACU except Nepal are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement, as are transactions on a deferred basis with the ACU countries. Resident and Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resi- dent accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. Transac- 3 The Czech Republic, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. were in the B i la teral Group. By April 1,1993, all of these countries were excluded from the Bilat- eral Group, and the Bilateral Group ceased to exist after that date. 4A11 remittances by nationals of China to any country outside India and all remittances to China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. All non-trade-related transactions with China or nationals of China continue to be prohibited unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in China or Pakistan w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank but must obtain approval before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and China, respec- tively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they may also effect certain types of personal remit- tances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remit- tances; remittances for other purposes require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. 5 However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. tions conducted through these accounts distinguish between those effected by banks and by nonbanks. The accounts of banks are classified into two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes —that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes; with authorized transfers from the nonres- ident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or coun- tries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be deb- ited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to nonresi- dent external rupee (NRER) accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee are residents of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) receipts of divi- dends and interest on securities, shares, and depos- its held with the approval of the Reserve Bank; (2) refunds of amounts previously debited or over- charged; (3) proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate non- resident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above); (4) proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; (5) proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surren- der value of policies held by nonresidents, pro- vided that the corporation certifies that premiums have been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; (6) all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratu- ities, bonuses from a former employer, income tax refunds, and the like; and (7) proceeds of personal checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 4,000 and that no individual credit exceeds Rs 1,500. When the nonresident account holder is an Indian national or a person of Indian origin, credit- ing is allowed in respect of (1) withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 INDIA Public Provident Fund Scheme of 1968, (2) rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder; (3) maturity proceeds of all types of securities; (4) proceeds from sales of securities sold on stock exchanges in India; and (5) the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresi- dent accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trusts that are at least 60 percent owned, or in which at least a 60 percent beneficial interest is held directly or indirectly, by nonresident Indians and provided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from remittances abroad or from funds in India other- wise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and, in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to the account if the shares were acquired with approval from the Reserve Bank. Authorized deal- ers have been allowed to freely credit rupee funds that are legitimately due to the account holder to nonresident ordinary accounts. In respect of credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are required to ascertain the bona fide nature of the transaction before crediting the amount to the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary non- resident rupee accounts for (1) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in India and (2) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, national plan or savings certificates, and securities of the central or state Government. Nonresident external rupee accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 For- eign Exchange Regulation Act, some state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not hold- ing such licenses have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remit- ted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and draf ts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or foreign currency nonresident accounts (FCNR) of the same account holder is also allowed if the transferor and transferee are resi- dents in the External Group of countries. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India and transfers to other NRER accounts are freely allowed. Balances may also be used for purchases of for- eign currency or rupee traveler's checks or travel- er's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities. Investments in the shares of Indian compa- nies or in partnership firms, and the like, or in immovable property may be made with the specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from the personal income tax although juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural and juridical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the gift tax. Foreign currency nonresident accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term depos- its by persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside in the External Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including inter- est. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances may also be used for the purposes for which debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Nonresident (Nonrepatriable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominately owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 235 of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Ban- gladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts, including interest accrued, may not be repatriated abroad at any time. Foreign currency ordinary (nonrepayable) deposit accounts may be opened by nonresidents. These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited with funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee value of the principal and accrued interest may be credited to the nonresident ordinary accounts of the depositor. Imports and Import Payments Imports do not require licenses or customs clear- ance permits unless specifically required. However, there is a negative list of imports consisting of (1) prohibited items, (2) restricted items, and (3) canalized items. There are very few items on the prohibited list. The restricted items include most con- sumer goods and selected items, such as precious stones, insecticides, pesticides and drugs, certain chemicals, and 16 goods reserved for the small-scale sector. The canalized items include mainly crude oil and petroleum products, edible oils, seeds, and cere- als. Import licenses are issued for these products with varying validity periods. Imports of gold, silver, cur- rency notes, bank notes, and coins are controlled by the Reserve Bank.6 Imports from Fiji are prohibited. All items not included in the negative list are freely available for importation under open general license (OGL). During the first 12 months after their return, nonresident Indian nationals returning home permanently may import all raw materials except restricted and canalized items under OGL for purposes of setting up small industries, subject to a value limit. Advance licenses permit duty-free imports of raw materials, components, intermedi- ates, consumables, parts, spares including manda- tory spares, and packing materials required for the purpose of export production.7 Most capital goods are freely importable. How- ever, secondhand capital goods require licenses, 6 Passengers of Indian origin or passengers holding a valid passport may import gold up to 5 kilograms as part of their bag- gage, provided that they come to India after staying abroad for not less than six months and subject to the payment of duty of Rs 220 per 10 grams. 7 Effective April 1, 1993, computer software was included in the list of items permitted to be imported duty-free under advance licenses. except in selected sectors. For imports of capital equipment for power generation, transmission, and distribution, applicants must obtain prior clearance from a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Development before calling for global tenders. However, the tenders floated by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Oil India Limited, and the Gas Authority of India Limited will be eval- uated in accordance with the guidelines issued by the empowered committee on indigenization in the oil industry under the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals. For projects being established with external assistance, under which the international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure is followed for inviting bids, no further indigenous clearance will be required. Imports under OGL are allowed, or import licenses are granted on the basis of the certification of items covered by the ICB procedure by the concerned administrative ministry. Nonresi- dent Indian nationals returning home for perma- nent settlement may import goods other than restricted items and certain specified items for pur- poses of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Since April 1,1992, the classification of exporters as export houses, trading houses, and star trading houses has been determined on the basis of average annual net foreign exchange earnedduring the pre- ceding licensing years.8 Export houses, trading houses, and star trading houses are eligible for self- certification advance licenses. Nonindustrial users, such as research and devel- opment laboratories, scientific or higher educa- tional institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of raw materials, compo- nents, consumables, spares, and other items, including office machines and professional-grade consumer durables but not consumer goods. When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may Effective April 1,1993, the criterion for recognition of export houses, trading houses, and star trading houses has been based on the average free-on-board (f.o.b.) value of physical exports, as follows: Average f.o.b. value of physical exports during the preceding three licensing years (in Rs million) Export houses Trading houses Star trading houses 100 500 2,500 F.o.b. value of physical exports during the preceding three licensing years (in Rs million) 150 750 3,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDIA make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Contracting of suppli- ers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long-term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be sub- mitted are not normally allowed, except for those with respect to import values of up to $2,500. How- ever, in special cases—for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers —the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain products, including cereals, certain oils and seeds, drugs,9 most fertiliz- ers, and petroleum products, is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are State Trading Corporation (STC), Food Corporation of India, Indian Oil Cor- poration, and Minerals and Metals Trading Corpo- ration. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center facility. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 50 percent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are food grains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to approve remittances for vari- ous purposes subject to certain guidelines. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals who do not reside per- manently in India may be paid only in foreign cur- rency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension funds; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance poli- cies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies in which nonresi- dent interest does not exceed 40 percent do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, subject to 9On April 1, 1993, drugs were deleted from the list of cana- lized items. the general clearance requirement above, there are no restrictions on remittances of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries whose permanent resi- dence is outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their fami- lies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than those from China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Resident Indian nationals are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form formalities under the For- eign Travel Scheme to any country (other than Bhu- tan, Nepal, and the countries covered by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme) once every three calen- dar years. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the Foreign Travel Scheme is disregarded; these visits may be combined with those for any other purpose except tours for export promo- tion and other business matters, and pilgrimages. Res- idents are entitled to foreign exchange up to $500 or its equivalent and a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier on which they travel. The foreign exchange entitlement for children up to the age of 12 is one-half the normal adult quota. Authorized travel agents, air- lines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for any eligible per- son; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Ban- gladesh, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Pakistan, Seychelles, Singapore, and Sri Lanka is gov- erned by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme, under which resident Indian citizens visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of $250 a person once every three calendar years. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons go- ing abroad with or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes). Cer- tain categories of passengers, including persons trav- eling between India and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and em- ployees of airlines and steamship companies travel- ing abroad on business for their company on one of its carriers, are not required to complete a "V form. 10 Effective April 10, 1993, authorized dealers have been allowed to approve remittances of dividends by all Ind ian com- panies irrespective of the percentage of nonresident sharehold- ing in such companies, subject to certain conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 237 Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to nonresident (external) accounts. The exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, in general, pro- hibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations higher than Rs 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 250 a person at any one time to countries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permit- ted to sell foreign currency notes and coins up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $20 or its equivalent to those going to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresi- dents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $10,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign cur- rency and taken out. Students going to foreign uni- versities with full bursaries receive a foreign exchange allowance of up to $1,000 a person for set- tling in and for purchasing initial equipment. There is also an allowance of $500 to cover the initial expenses of persons traveling abroad for employ- ment purposes and a travel allowance of $500 for medical checkups and consultations abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Most products may be exported without a license, whereas the exportation of certain items requires a license or is prohibited. Goods may be exported without restriction, provided that they are not pro- hibited, restricted through licensing, or canalized. Restricted products11 may not be exported unless covered by a valid license issued by the licensing authority concerned. Exports to Fiji are prohibited. Border trade (that is, frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of China is not allowed. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. Ex- porters must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange earnings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer. Exporters have been permitted to retain up to 15 percent of receipts in foreign currency accounts 11 The exportation of certain commodities, including petro- leum products and mineral ores and concentrates, is reserved for state trading enterprises. with banks in India. Export proceeds must be repatri- ated within six months of shipment and surrendered to authorized dealers unless specifically permitted by a general license or special permission of the Reserve Bank to retain them either with authorized dealers in India or banks abroad. Exporters are required to ob- tain permission from the Reserve Bank through au- thorized dealers in the event that the export value is not realized within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank also administers a scheme under which engi- neering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of export value in installments over more than six months. Some exports are prohibited,12 and exports of hides, skins, and leather are subject to export duties; others, including footwear, roasted and salted pea- nuts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices.13 A substantial number of exports, mainly new manufactures (such as engineer- ing goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, marine products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and jute and coir products) receive import duty drawbacks, refund of central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists may, with the approval of cus- toms, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered immediately on receipt.14 The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring into India Indian currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than 12 These include all forms of wildlife including their par ts and products, exotic birds, all items of wild flora included in Appen- dix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, beef, human skeletons, tallow, fa ts and /or oils of any animal origin excluding fish oil, wood, and wood products in the form of logs, timber, stumps, roots, barks, chips, powder, flakes, dust, pulp, and charcoal. With effect from April 1, 1991, wild orchids, chemicals included in Schedule I of the Chemical Weapons Convention of the United Nations, sandalwood ex- cluding some fu l ly finished products, and red sanders wood in any form were included on the prohibited list of exports. Exports of footwear and roasted and salted peanuts are per- mitted on a decontrolled basis. 14 Since March 1, 1992, 40 percent of receipts have been required to be surrendered at the official exchange rate, whereas the remaining 60 percent have been allowed to be sold at the free market rate. Fifteen percent of receipts to be surrendered at the free market exchange ra te may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. Since March 1,1993,100 percent of receipts have been allowed to be sold at the free ma rket rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 INDIA Rs 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 250 a person in Indian currency notes from other countries if they previously took out this amount when leaving India to travel abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipts of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; the subsequent use of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 5 million are used to purchase rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Persons resident in India may not borrow any for- eign exchange from persons resident in or outside India without prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured by nonresident persons and com- panies (including banks) as well as repayment of such loans and credits and payments of interest and other charges on such borrowings require prior permission from the Reserve Bank. The procedure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by Indian entities envis- ages that borrowing proposals, except when loans are for less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they may be approved by the Reserve Bank. Foreign currency loans contracted by Indian companies having net foreign exchange earn- ings and carrying a minimum maturity period of two years are approved by the Reserve Bank without administrative clearance from the Ministry of Finance. Permission is required from the Reserve Bank for initiating, expanding, or continuing any business activity in India, and for holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, com- mercial, or industrial activity in India by nonresi- dents, noncitizens, and nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law.15 Foreign Direct Investment in India Before the announcement of the new industrial pol- icy on July 24, 1991, foreign investment in India was being permitted provided that it was accompanied by a technology transfer. Foreign direct investments were permitted in industries that required sophisticated technology, industries that were experiencing critical production gaps, or industries that could expand their 15 Persons of Ind ian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or pr iva te limited company engaged in any activity except in agr icu l tural or p lan ta t ion activ- ities and real estate business (excluding real estate development, that is, construction of houses, etc.), or in any partnership or pro- prietary concern engaged in any activity other than real estate business and agr icu l tural or plantation activity, provided that funds for investment are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are d rawn from their nonresident accounts, a commitment is made that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested, and overall limits on holdings of shares and con- vertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by non- resident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership f irms that are owned to the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Ind ian nation- ality or origin and overseas trusts in which at least 60 percent of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited com- panies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies as defined above may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresi- dent (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio investments, with repatriation benefits, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatriable or nonre- patriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the pa id-up capital of the company concerned or (b) 5 percent of the total pa id-up va lue of each series of convertible debentures issued by the com- pany concerned. However, if a company so resolves through a General Body Resolution, then purchases of shares or deben- tures of such a company could be made up to 24 percent as against 5 percent mentioned at (b) above; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certificates with f u ll repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manu fac tu r ing projects, hospitals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star cate- gory, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 100 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial under- takings in specified priority industries listed in Annex III to the Statement on New Industrial Policy with free repatriation of such investment. Income from the investment will also be allowed to be repatriated a f ter deduction of applicable domestic taxes. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies as defined above may also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with fu ll repatriation benefits, provided that (1) the deposits are made for three years, (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the lim- its prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies, and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors through remittances from abroad or through payments from their nonres- ident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts. Spe- cial tax concessions app ly to investments by nonresident Indians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 239 exports. Generally, an equity participation of up to 40 percent was permitted. If the required foreign tech- nology was highly sophisticated or the project was predominantly export-oriented, a larger foreign equity participation was permitted. The policy relat- ing to foreign investment in free trade zones and export-oriented industrial units was relatively more liberal, and foreign equity up to 100 percent was per- mitted. Approval for these investments was granted by the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals (SLA) in the Ministry of Industry or, for firms in the free trade zones, by the Ministry of Commerce. On July 24, 1991, a new industrial policy was announced under which industrial licensing, for- eign direct investments, foreign technology agree- ments, and public sector policy were liberalized. In the area of direct foreign investment, the require- ment that such investments must involve transfer of technology was abolished, and the Reserve Bank was authorized to grant automatic approval for investments under certain conditions. Applications for investments in areas that do not fall within the authority of the Reserve Bank but are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the SIA, and proposals that have special features or do not fit into the policy framework are considered by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). The Reserve Bank is responsible for approving for- eign investment up to 51 percent of the paid-up capital of the Indian companies that are engaged in manufac tur ing activities in the 34 manufacturing sectors. The 1992/93 budget permits foreign institutional investors (FIIs) including institutions (e.g., pension funds, mutual funds, investment trusts, asset man- agement companies, nominee companies, and incor- porated or institutional portfolio managers) to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities and instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs were required to regis- ter initially with the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and with the Reserve Bank. The authori- zation from the Reserve Bank would enable FIIs to (1) open foreign currency-denominated accounts; (2) open nonresident rupee accounts for the purpose of operating securities investments; (3) transfer bal- ances between foreign currency accounts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad repatriate capital, capital gains, dividends, and interest income. Portfolio investments in primary or secondary mar- kets would be subject to a ceiling of 24 percent of issued share capital for the total holdings of all regis- tered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (1) foreign investments under financial collabora- tion, which would be permitted up to 51 percent; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts, and con- vertibles in the Euromarket. Investment in Trading Companies Foreign direct investments with foreign capital par- ticipation of up to 51 percent are permitted in trading companies. These companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and must obtain a certifi- cate of their status as either export, trading, or star trading house before they apply to the Reserve Bank for remittance of dividends. Dividend remittance must be balanced by export earnings of the company for seven years. Exporters are granted a certificate of export, trading, or star trading house status when their average export earnings in the preceding three years are at least Rs 60 million, Rs 300 million, and Rs 1,250 million, respectively. Exporters whose earnings during the preceding year are at least Rs 120 million, Rs 600 million, or Rs 1,500 million are also eligible for the certificate of export, trading, or star trading house status, respectively. Increase in foreign Equity in Existing Companies Foreign equity shares in the existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio to 51 percent of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the for- eign investor. Firms in certain manufac tur ing industries and tourist industries (hotels, restau- rants, and beach resorts) may increase the equity ratio immediately, while others may increase the equity ratio as part of expansion, provided the expansion is in specified manufac tur ing or tourist industries. In both cases, the Reserve Bank grants automatic approval. Investment in Power Sector Foreign investment of up to 100 percent in pri- vately owned enterprises in the power sector may be permitted on a case-by-case basis. The condition of dividend balancing by export earnings does not apply to these investments. Prior approval from the Reserve Bank is required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether residents or nonresidents. However, sales and transfers of shares of Indian companies through stock exchanges in India by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin in favor of Indian cit- izens or persons of Indian origin and Indian com- panies in which nonresident interest does not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 INDIA exceed 40 percent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance when the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor are credited to his ordinary nonresi- dent rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repa- triation outside India. The transfer of shares by nonresidents in favor of nonresidents, residents, or non-FERA companies does not require clearance from the Reserve Bank, provided that the shares are purchased by the nonresidents under the portfolio investment scheme on a repatriation basis and are sold on stock exchanges through the same autho- rized dealer a f ter a lock-in period of one year. In such cases, the sale proceeds may be credited to NRER or FCNR accounts a f ter deduction of tax or may be remitted abroad. The following capital transactions by residents require approval from the Reserve Bank: (1) holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except if acquired while a nonresident of India); (2) exportation of Indian securi- ties and transfers of Indian securities to nonresidents; (3) guaranteeing of obligations of a nonresident or of a resident in favor of a nonresident; and (4) associations with or participation in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original invest- ment, may be repatriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration pur- poses. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no further remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed.16 However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (that is, July 1947, against the former Sterling Area countries, and Sep- tember 1939 against other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equiva- lent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not 16 Since March 1,1992, foreign exchange allowances at the free market rate have been granted up to $500 a person, or $1,000 a family, to cover initial expenses. exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign nationals who are temporarily residing in India (other than nationals of China, Pakistan, and South A f r ica) and foreign diplomatic persons are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each fam i ly at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the importation into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, exportation, or other disposal of for- eign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not perma- nently residing in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently residing in India) who are pri- vate persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. For- eign-born widows of Indian nationals are permitted to transfer initially a sum of Rs 500,000 when they leave India permanently; thereafter, they are allowed to remit up to Rs 250,000 a year out of capital and income. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritances, and bequests by persons who were never residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports, residing abroad, and wishing to return to India are not required to sur- render within three months of their arrival foreign currency assets they acquired lawfully while resid- ing outside India provided they stayed abroad con- tinuously for at least one year. Under the Resident Foreign Currency Account Scheme, Indian nationals (returning permanently to India from abroad) are permitted, within three months of their arrival, to open and operate with- out restriction resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with authorized dealers in India; all foreign exchange transferred from abroad may be credited to these accounts. Gold The Gold Control Act of 1968 was repealed on June 6,1990 by the Gold Control Repeal Act of 1990, which eliminated restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohib- ited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of silver products are subject to quota restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 241 The importation and exportation of gold in any form by residents are regulated by the import pol- icy in force. Authorities require special authoriza- tion from the Reserve Bank. Jewelers are permitted to manufac ture gold and silver jewelry in bond from imported gold and silver, for export purposes only Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Replenishment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of specified fineness are enti- tled to replenish their gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Gov- ernment of India) against release orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they satisfy value added and other requirements of the scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the met- als are needed for a particular purpose. Special per- mission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-exportation, pro- vided that payment for the importation will not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry and the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 27. Authorized dealers were permitted to offer forward cover for all transactions permitted under the exchange control regulations. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 4. A Nonresident Rupee Nonrepayable Deposit Scheme was introduced to encourage for- eign investment. Under this scheme, accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, over- seas corporate bodies predominately owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Ban- gladeshi nationals). July 17. Residents were allowed to hold up to $500 in foreign currencies for numismatic purposes. September 22. The Resident Foreign Currency Account Scheme replaced the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement (RIFEE) Scheme. Under this scheme, Indian nationals permanently returning to India from abroad would be permitted, within three months of their arrival, to open and operate resident foreign currency accounts in any permitted currency with authorized dealers in India; all foreign exchange transferred from abroad may be credited to these accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 12. The advance import deposit require- ment for noncapital goods was abolished. April 1. The regime of import restrictions was lib- eralized and changed to the "negative" system. The negative list would consist mainly of consumer goods, the importation of most of which would remain prohibited. April 1. The list of canalized imports was shortened. October 21. A scheme issuing special import licenses was introduced for the purpose of encour- aging exports to the Asian Clearing Union. Payments for Invisibles March 24. Authorized dealers were permitted to sell foreign exchange to officials, other than chief executives, of companies, up to $2,000 a person for each business trip, to enable them to meet their entertainment expenses. June 1. The 15 percent tax on foreign exchange sold for travel abroad was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The list of canalized exports was shortened. Capital February 28. The 1992/93 budget authorized for- eign institutional investors (FIIs), including institu- tions (e.g., pension funds, mutual funds, investment trusts, asset management companies, nominee com- panies, and incorporated or institutional portfolio managers) to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities or instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs were required to register initially with the Secu- rities Exchange Board of India and with the Reserve Bank. The authorization from the Reserve Bank would enable FIIs to (1) open foreign currency- denominated accounts; (2) open nonresident rupee accounts for the purpose of operating securities investments; (3) transfer balances between foreign currency accounts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad repatriate capital, capital gains, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 INDIA dividends, and interest income. Portfolio invest- ments in primary or secondary markets would be subject to a ceiling of 24 percent of issued share capi- tal for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (a) foreign investments under financial collaboration, which would be permitted up to 51 percent, and (b) invest- ments through offshore single or regional funds, glo- bal depository receipts, and convertibles in the Euromarket. March 17. The limit of Rs 50 million a transaction for authorized dealers was abolished. In addition, all restrictions on the use of foreign currency loans and credit lines with financial institutions for the purpose of financing capital goods imports, includ- ing the $5 million limit on foreign currency loans by banks, were abolished. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 1. An interbank exchange market in which the exchange ra te of the rupee would be deter- mined by market forces was introduced. The Reserve Bank ceased to conduct forward transac- tions with authorized dealers, except that it would enter into swap transactions under which it would purchase spot U.S. dollars and sell forward for two to six months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Its exchange value is determined by Bank Indonesia under a system of managed float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for spot transac- tions were Rp 2,057.0 and Rp 2,067.0, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other curren- cies1 are determined by reference to the cross rates of the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in inter- national markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange rates announced by Bank Indonesia apply only to some transactions undertaken at cer- tain times of the day. For all other transactions, banks are free to set their own rates. Purchases and sales of foreign currency bills by Bank Indonesia are conducted from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon on the basis of an indicative rate announced at 8:00 a.m. This rate is also used for swap transactions and export d ra ft discounts with Bank Indonesia. Spot and for- ward transactions, however, are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between Bank Indonesia and the bank concerned. From 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturday, Bank Indonesia fixes a rate for spot transactions with banks; such transactions are normally conducted to enable the banks to arrive at their net open position. All transactions between Bank Indonesia and other banks may be conducted by telephone through the dealing room. Foreign exchange transactions are restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank finan- cial institutions, and licensed money changers. Bank Indonesia stands ready to trade unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with autho- rized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Two types of swap facilities are operated by Bank Indonesia: liquidity swaps on the initiative of Bank Indonesia and investment swaps with a maturity of more than two years operated on the initiative of banks. 1 Those commonly used in Indonesia's international transac- tions: Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bru- nei dollars, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. The commercial banks' net open position is limr ited to 20 percent of capital on a daily basis. The net open position, which includes banks' off-balance sheet accounts, is defined as the net balance between foreign exchange assets and liabilities after the administrative position is taken into account. Sepa- rate limits apply to total exposures, off-balance sheet exposures and exposures in each currency. A bank whose net open position exceeds the limit is subject to a penalty. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7,1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Policies on for- eign exchange market operations are taken by Bank Indonesia. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized foreign exchange banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia main- tains no operative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. However, if holders of accounts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals may be authorized as import- ers, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, Israel, South Africa, and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 INDONESIA products. In addition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the recondi- tioning of their industry in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Industry Certain cate- gories of agricultural imports, including different categories of food, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. Since mid-1985, import controls on several prod- uct categories (e.g., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agricultural products) have been progressively removed. Controls remain on about 12 percent of total imports. Imports of cer- tain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Pertamina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and FT Dahana, on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar, but its monopoly on maize imports was revoked in September 1989 and that on soybean meal in June 1991. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equip- ment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. Restrictions on the importation of trucks were reimposed in Octo- ber 1991. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by agen- cies designated by the Government of Indonesia; inspection expenses are borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspection, the headquar- ters of the agency in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the exporting country a sur- vey report (LPS) specifying the type, quality, quan- tity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value-added taxes; LPS must be sent by the agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened let- ters of credit, or for imports not covered by letters of credit, to the bank designated by the importer. After paying duties based on the price fixed by the agency and taxes, the importer presents all import documents to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LPS, except those that are valued at less than $5,000 or are sus- pected to be illegally imported. Imports for foreign capital investment and domestic capital investment must have an LPS. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry bat- teries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Angola, Israel, South Africa, and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are exports to all coun- tries of certain categories of unprocessed or low- quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits, which are issued by relevant govern- ment institutions. Certain producer-exporters of rub- ber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Quality controls are also maintained on certain products, including fish, man- ioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, veg- etable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials.2 Concern with domestic price stability sometimes involves suspension of exports of various items in this category. In 1990, producer-exporters of cement and clinkers were allowed to export these products with the approval of the Ministry of Trade as shortages developed on the domestic market. Sev- eral categories of gold and silver may be exported only by exporters who possess certification from FT Aneka Tambang and authorization from the Minis- try of Trade. Most other products are freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state trading firms. How- ever, manioc (cassava) may be exported only by approved exporters. As of November 1, 1989, pep- per is exempt from certain previous export restric- tions and may henceforth be exported by all companies possessing a trade permit. Exports of nutmeg and mace, cassiavera, tengkowang seeds, coffee, and vegetables from Nor th Sumatra have been liberalized since May 1990. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be exported only by approved textile 2 Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fer- tilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, olein, raw ra t tan, meat, and all goods from subsidized raw materials. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 245 exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commod- ity Exchange Board. All exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Exports of sawn timber and wood products require approval from the joint marketing body and may be made only by approved exporters. A minimum price of $250 a cubic meter applies to exports of sawn and processed timber, and export taxes rang- ing from $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are imposed on these products. Although export taxes on raw logs range from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter, certain processed woods, such as finger-jointed walls, pan- els, and molding are not taxed. Certain other prod- ucts are subject to export taxes; these range from 5 percent to 30 percent (the tax rate on leather prod- ucts is 20 percent, and the tax rates on ra t tan are $14-$15 a kilogram). For all goods subject to the export tax and the export surcharge, payment is due when the exports are registered with foreign exchange banks. If the export tax and export surcharge are not yet settled at the time of registration, exporters are required to submit promissory notes for their value. Promis- sory notes may be settled in three ways. Exports without a letter of credit should be settled with the foreign exchange bank not later than 30 days from the date of export registration. Exports using con- signment and usance letters of credit should be set- tled not later than 90 days from the date of export registration. Exports with sight letters of credit con- ditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Since October 1989, the special permit for export- ing coffee, which was formerly allowed only from certain provinces, has been eliminated, and ship- ments have been allowed from all provinces. This decision was made in light of the suspension of cof- fee export quotas by the International Coffee Orga- nization (ICO). In January 1990, subsidized export credits were removed completely. There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no surren- der requirement for export proceeds. In the calcula- tion of export taxes on the principal commodities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. To enable producer-exporters to obtain their imported inputs at international prices, exporters and suppliers of inputs for exporters are permitted to bypass the import-licensing system and import tar iffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by nontar- iff barriers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain goods. In this "border-cross- ing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea. For the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of $150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel or $1,500 if trans- ported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government may require all foreign firms bidding for government- sponsored construction or procurement projects whose import component is valued at more than Rp500 million to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counter- purchase requirements must submit with their bids a letter in which they agree to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's f.o.b. value in selected Indonesian products during the life of the contract.4 Goods that may be used to meet the counterpurchase requirement include agricultural products, and manu- factured and other products, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either directly or through a third party, possibly from another country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionality"; that is, the counterpurchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports from Indonesia. Indone- sian products other than oil and natural gas pur- chased under countertrade arrangements must be 3 Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (f irms th at export at least 65 percent of their total pro- duction) or as exporter-producers (firms th at export 85 percent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Pro- ducer-exporters may bring into the coun try their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post docu- mentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate th at their out- put was, or will be, exported or that their o u t p ut was an input in an exported ou tpu t, then they can also receive the same permis- sion to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a du ty d rawback facility. 4 The following are exempt from these requirements: (1) sources of import f inanc ing derived from soft loans and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes or duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific expertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, consultants' services, purchases of technology (patents), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the jo in t-ven ture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 INDONESIA shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations must be completed at the end of such a purchasing contract. If, when the project is completed or the purchase is implemented (for gov- ernment imports), the exportation from Indonesia has not yet been completed, a penalty will be imposed on the responsible party to the extent of 50 percent of the export value (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are neither restricted nor subject to con- trol. Proceeds from invisibles need not be surren- dered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver commemorative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Incentives for foreign direct investments include an exemption or relief from import duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxiliary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal purposes on virtually all machinery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive pref- erential customs du ty treatment for imported raw materials they need for two years7 production activ- ity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire for- eign experts as needed to maintain its export com- mitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re- entry permits for six months and are exempt from the Rp 25,000 departure tax. Full foreign ownership in foreign direct invest- ments is allowed in certain sectors if they meet cer- tain criteria. In general, foreign direct investment must be undertaken with a minimum capital of $1 million, but in certain instances, investment with a minimum capital of $250,000 may be allowed (since April 16, 1992). Foreign investors may reinvest profits in the shares of other foreign firms (since April 16, 1992). Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (af ter settle- ment of taxes and financial obligations in Indone- sia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nation- als in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer per- mit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and non- residents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank f inanc ial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A reserve requirement of 2 percent is applicable to the for- eign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the fo r- eign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or private companies. As of November 1991, banks' short-term foreign exchange liabilities may not exceed 30 percent of their own capital, and they are required to allocate at least 80 percent of all foreign exchange credits to export-oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. A Debt Management Team (consisting of the State Secre- tary, the ministers of all economic portfolios, and the Governor of Bank Indonesia), established in September 1991, supervises all foreign loan trans- actions. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, state bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. There are also limits on the total foreign borrowings of private banks, but these limits do not apply to pri- vate enterprises. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in foreign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed principally by the Petro- leum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Capital i / - ' / i INDONESIA 247 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of March 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial. The Bank Markazi Jomhouri Iran (the central bank) announces daily the official exchange rate on the basis of the free market exchange rate, which is set freely by foreign exchange brokers and money changers. On March 31, 1993, the official buying and selling rates of Bank Markazi for the U.S. dollar were Rls 1,648 and Rls 1,650, respec- tively, per US$1.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions other than those permitted through the free exchange market must take place through Bank Markazi or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regula- tions issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval from the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) may be effected in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs).2 Final settlements, when necessary, take place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. The Islamic Republic of Iran does not maintain operative bilateral payments agreements. 1 Until the unification of the official exchange rate on March 21, 1993, there were three official rates: (1) the official ra te pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.30 per US$1, which was ma in ly applied to receipts from exports of oil and payments for imports of essential goods, military items, important national projects, foreign exchange allowances for certain invisibles, and public sector capital transactions; (2) the competitive exchange rate of Rls 600 per US$1, which was applied to other imports; and (3) the floating exchange rate, which was announced daily by Bank Markazi on the basis of the free market rate and applied to all other transactions not subject to the other two rates. 2 The member countries of the ACU are Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 3 At the end of 1992, inoperative bilateral payments agree- ments were maintained with Algeria, Bulgaria, China, the Republic of Croatia, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Germany, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, Romania, the Russ ian Federation, the Syrian Arab Republic, and Turkey. Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Foreign nationals and Ira- nian nonresidents may also maintain rial and for- eign exchange accounts with branches of Iranian banks in the Persian Gulf region. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce, except for special military and pharmaceuti- cal goods, souvenirs, and gifts brought in by incoming travelers, before they are registered with the authorized banks. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Import allo- cations for ministries and institutions are estab- lished under a foreign exchange budget approved by Parliament. These ministries and institutions then make their own allocations among different product groups and between the public and private sectors. The Procurement and Distribution Centers have been dissolved and their functions have been transferred to the Ministry of Commerce. Import policy is re-examined at the end of each Iranian cal- endar year (March 20), and new regulations, to take effect in the following year, are published by the Ministry of Commerce. Goods are classified into "authorized/' "unauthorized/' and "prohibited" categories. The importation of authorized goods is not restricted. The importation of unauthorized goods may either be temporarily prohibited or per- mitted after fulfillment of certain requirements. The importation of goods in the prohibited category is not allowed. When imports are registered at the authorized banks, the banks collect a registration fee of 15 percent for ordinary goods and 5 percent for essential goods (both based on the c.i.f. value of imports). For certain goods, importers must also lodge an additional registration deposit of 15 percent of the c.i.f. value of the import order with Bank Markazi through the authorized banks. However, most food items and certain other prod- ucts are exempt from the deposit requirement. The registration deposit is not interest-bearing and is refunded when customs clearance certificates are 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 249 presented or when the import order is canceled. If the actual import value is less than 90 percent of the import order, the amount of the refund on the regis- tration deposit is reduced by the ratio between the actual import value and the import order. Bank Markazi may shift goods between the category that is exempt from the registration deposit and the cat- egory for which the registration deposit is required. Most imports are subject to the commercial bene- fit tax, which is either specific or ad valorem, and is imposed in addition to any applicable customs duties. Monopoly taxes, when applicable, are included in the commercial benefit tax, whose rate each year is specified in the export-import regula- tions. Clearance of goods through customs is autho- rized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and of a permit issued by the Ministry of Commerce (these permits may be issued when letters of credit are opened and need not be reissued). Certain goods, such as phar- maceuticals and imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone, must be accompanied by a special permit when they are cleared through cus- toms. Letters of credit in foreign exchange may be opened in favor of Iranian contractors and manu- facturing units. Individuals residing in the Persian Gulf region may open import letters of credit in Ira- nian rials. The limit on the amount of goods that an incoming traveler is permitted to import is gov- erned by the export-import regulations. When goods for which import letters of credit have been opened are being transported, priority must be accorded to Iranian transportation carriers (air, land, or sea). Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance may be effected by the Central Insurance Company of Iran, Iran Insurance Company, Asia Insurance Company, or Alborz Insurance Company through their respective foreign exchange accounts at the official rate. Iranian insurance companies may issue insur- ance contracts denominated in foreign currencies for imports of goods; only Iran Insurance Company may issue war risk insurance in foreign currency. Income in rials derived from ticket sales by foreign airline companies located in Iran may be trans- ferred at the official exchange rate. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange at the official exchange rate up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health. Foreign exchange allowances are provided at the official exchange rate to students who have been approved by the Ministry of Higher Education to study abroad. The amount of the allowance varies according to the cost of living in the country of study, up to a maxi- mum of $1,470 a month; an additional allowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance may be approved for the spouse and for each child, respectively. When this allowance is not sufficient to cover tuition, additional amounts may be approved. Iranian nationals traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to $1,500 a person, and a group of persons on the same passport may purchase for- eign exchange at the official exchange rate up to a maximum of $5,000. Iranian nationals traveling for business purposes approved by the Ministry of Commerce may purchase additional foreign exchange up to $500 a trip. There are no restrictions on transfers abroad of dividends on foreign direct investment at the offi- cial exchange rate. Foreign nationals whose services are considered essential are allowed to remit at the official exchange rate up to 30 percent of their net salaries with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign exchange from foreign currency-denominated accounts may be transferred by natural persons without restriction. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. Iranian nationals leaving the country must pay an exit fee of Rls 50,000 for the first trip and Rls 100,000 for each successive trip. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all products must be made in accordance with relevant regulations. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of non-oil products are not subject to limitation; the only requirements are that an authorization be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce for exports for statisti- cal purposes and that the foreign exchange commit- ment be placed with an authorized bank to ensure that foreign exchange earned from exports is sold to an authorized bank at the official exchange rate. Exporters of non-oil products are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of exports at the offi- cial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Iranian nationals may retain their foreign exchange earnings in foreign currency accounts with the authorized banks. Na tural and juridical persons, either Iranian or foreign (with the excep- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN tion of embassies and representatives of airline companies) are permitted to sell foreign exchange without restriction to the banking system at the off i- cial exchange rate. Authorized banks may purchase foreign exchange at the official exchange rate from transportation com- panies that provide customs and transit services through Iran, from embassies, and from foreign political representatives in Iran to finance their expenses in Iran. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange travelers may bring into the country. Capital Foreign direct investments originally brought into the country by the Law Concerning the Attrac- tion and Protection of Foreign Capital Investments in Iran are supervised by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Finance. Repatriation of capital may be effected with the approval of this organization and Bank Markazi and in accordance with this law. Gold tary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. The exportation of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots, coins, or semifinished products may be undertaken only by Bank Markazi. Authorized banks as well as natural and juridical persons may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion for com- mercial purposes in accordance with the relevant regulations. The importation by a traveler of jew- elry valued at up to Rls 5 million is permitted pro- vided that it is recorded on the passport and re- exported; the importation of jewelry whose value exceeds this amount requires approval from Bank Markazi. The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval from Bank Markazi. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. Authority to export or import gold for mone- March 21. The competitive and the floating exchange rates were abolished, and Bank Markazi would announce daily the official exchange rate based on the free market rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 per US$3.2169. The official buying and sell- ing rates on December 31, 1992 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq under- takes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this author- ity has been delegated to the governor and his dep- uty, who act on recommendations submitted by the Advisory Committee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Supervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the governor. Branches of the Rafi- dain Bank and the Rasheed Bank are licensed deal- ers. The Ministry of Trade formulates import policy and the annual program. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Residents and nonresidents of Iraqi and Arab nationality are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts without restriction, pro- vided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank notes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the public sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (for old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1,1987, for- eign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementa- tion of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These exemptions apply to new projects that are con- tracted af ter the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, has ceased to be effective, except that its provisions continue to apply to projects that were contracted before Resolution No. 767 took effect. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference must be made to the Central Bank. Imports financed by foreign 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 IRAQ exchange obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, roy- alties, and the like. Exchange is not granted to mer- chants to purchase insurance abroad for their imports or exports. The Raf ida in Bank and the Rasheed Bank are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are Arab nationals and employed by the Ministry of Higher Education and of scientific researchers and medical doctors in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 10 for each person who is not insured and ID 20 for each person who is insured and is working in the private sector. Skilled noncontractual workers employed in the national- ized sector by the Government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. The regulations provide, in principle, for two basic exchange allowances for tourist travel abroad on the basis of the classification of foreign countries into the following categories. The basic allowance for travel to Arab and socialist countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years). For the second category, which includes all other countries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). The individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad to countries in the first category ranges between ID 30 and ID 60 a person a day depending on status and duration of mission; for countries in the second category, the allowance ranges between ID 40 and ID 75 a day. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the coun- try of their residence, except for certain countries (such as India, socialist countries, and North Africa), where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are per- mitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 for per- sonal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimages are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohib- ited. The Ministry of Trade has authority to prohibit the exportation of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters of goods manufactured by firms in the public sector (consisting of 13 items) must undertake to repatri- ate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank and to surrender them within two months of shipment. Other exporters may retain their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with the commercial banks for three years and use them to pay for licensed imports. An export subsidy fund was established in 1969 for the purpose of promoting non-oil exports by providing financial incentives to eligible exporters. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presentation of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 100 from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli currency) in unlimited amounts, pro- vided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. The importation of Iraqi bank notes by travelers is lim- ited to ID 1,000. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel and South Africa, but must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank or the Rasheed Bank. Deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 253 November 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sec- tor companies, but citizens of Arab states may par- ticipate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural services, and tourism sectors. All trans- fers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may transfer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit it with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to international rates. Balances on these accounts with interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds have been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their nonresident accounts up to ID 20,000 a year in three installments to cover per- sonal expenses inside the country. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Investments by Arab nationals are encouraged by Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to participate in enterprises in which their capital participation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinars and the minimum capital of the enter- prise is ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be distrib- uted to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of their paid-in capital; and (3) Arab nationals to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investment purposes in accordance with certain regulations; such inflows are treated as working capital. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 (dated October 10, 1987), Iraqi residents, nonresidents, or foreigners may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and unworked gold, regardless of its weight, pro- vided that they declare it upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declara- tion; such gold may be brought back on their return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they brought with them for personal use when they entered Iraq. Changes During 1992 Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 19. Residents and nonresidents of Iraqi and Arab nationality were allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts without restric- tion, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank notes. Proceeds from Invisibles July 7. The importation of Iraqi bank notes by travelers would be limited to ID 1,000. Capital December 29. Arab nationals were permitted to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for indus- trial and agricultural investment purposes under certain conditions; such inflows would be treated as working capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ire- land participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portu- gal, and Spain, in the exchange rate and interven- tion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Ire- land maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portuguese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units. The agreement commits the Central Bank of Ire- land to buy or sell the currencies of the other partic- ipating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On February 1, 1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 100 100 100 100 ,000 ,000 1 1 Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish pesetas 2.05664 11.02080 42.42600 12.64800 37.64780 4.76156 6.05033 1.96616 10.63150 40.55150 12.09150 35.99190 4.22344 5.36655 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 31, 1992, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.6252 per £Ir 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control No exchange controls are in effect in Ireland. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Tourism and Trade if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of lrThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and I ta ly withdrew on September 17,1992. Agriculture, Food, and Forestry, if they are agricul- tural in character; import licenses are also issued in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Ireland notified the IMF on July 21,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain deposits in Irish pounds without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in cer- tain non-European Community (EC) countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveil- lance measures. Imports from non-EC countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges, such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs ta r i f f. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and fire- arms and ammunition) are prohibited without spe- cial licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a lim- ited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of ship- ment if their value exceeds £Ir 250. When payment is received in foreign currencies, proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 255 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. In accordance with a reg- ulation of the EC Council dated October 27, 1986, Ireland does not permit the free circulation of gold coins minted after 1960 that originate in the Repub- lic of South Africa. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Residents were allowed to obtain for- ward cover for financial outflows not related to trade. Administration of Control December 31. All exchange controls were abolished. January 1. Nonresidents were allowed to main- tain deposits in Irish pounds without restriction. The restriction that residents may only hold foreign currency accounts in Ireland in deposits of a fixed term of longer than three months was abolished. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) Capital January 1. Residents were permitted (1) to under- take financial investments and purchase properties in non-EC countries; (2) to purchase (through approved agents) foreign securities issued on a for- eign market without restriction; (3) to loan in domestic currency with maturities of more than one year to nonresidents without restriction; (4) to bor- row in foreign currency for nontrade purposes without restriction; and (5) to guarantee loans to nonresidents on behalf of Irish residents or nonresi- dents without restriction and to purchase or sell commodity future contracts. Companies registered with the International Financial Services Center were allowed to convert their capital from Irish pounds to a foreign currency on a onetime basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of April 30,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural Sheqalim), the external value of which is linked to a currency basket consisting of the following f ive major currencies: the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Since December 18, 1991, the midpoint rate in relation to the currency basket has been adjusted daily; a daily adjustment rate was initially set at 0.0236 percent so as to give an annual devalu- ation rate of 9 percent. On November 9, 1992, the midpoint rate was devalued by 3 percent against the currency basket; since then the adjustment rate has been set at 0.0211 percent so as to give an annual devaluation rate of 8 percent. The daily exchange rate is established by the Bank of Israel within margins of 5 percent around this midpoint rate. At noon on December 31, 1992, the midpoint exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was NIS 2.7640 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange. An exchange rate insurance scheme covering export receipts is in operation (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Purchases and sales of currency options issued by the authorized dealers are permitted; purchases by juridical persons are permitted, provided that they are intended to cover exchange rate risk arising from authorized trade and capital transactions and are conducted through the authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange; it is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies, and is carried out through autho- rized banks. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Israel notified the Fund on September 16,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. Holders may freely effect transfers from their foreign cur- rency accounts and may also convert funds held on the accounts into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening of con- vertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds on these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, including for transfers between non- residents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency There are six main types of foreign currency accounts that Israeli residents may hold: (1) Deposit accounts. These accounts may be held by certain residents (mostly immigrants). Balances on these accounts may be transferred abroad freely. Certain regulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. (2) Foreign currency deposit accounts (PAMAH). These accounts may be held by Israeli residents. Export proceeds and unilateral transfers directly received from abroad are permitted to be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 8 percent for a current account and 4 percent for a time deposit account. (3) Resident deposit accounts (PATAM). These are current deposit accounts against which a liquidity requirement of 100 percent is applied. The same types of funds may be deposited in either PAMAH or PATAM accounts. (4) Resident transitory deposit accounts. Foreign currency that has been received legally by Israeli residents may be kept in these accounts for up to 14 days. Within this period, funds may be used for 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 257 authorized purposes or converted into domestic currency. (5) Resident temporary deposit accounts. Foreign currency may be purchased and kept in these accounts for up to 30 days in advance of expected payments for authorized transactions. (Alterna- tively the foreign currency may be purchased for- ward for the same period of time from an authorized bank.) (6) Resident restitution deposit accounts. These accounts may be held only by a recipient of restitu- tion payments or certain disability pensions. These accounts may be in the form of a demand or a time deposit account in convertible currencies kept at an authorized bank. The liquidity requirement on December 31, 1992 was 77 percent (it has been low- ered at a rate of 1 percentage point a month since November 1991). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax-free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for additional travel exchange. In addition, a resident may open a deposit account linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than three months. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. The importation of meat is sub- ject to government procurement. Foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presen- tation of relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit). Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repay- ment of suppliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an authorized Israeli bank. Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year are allowed. A value-added tax of 17 percent is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than fresh fruits and vegetables. A 2 percent du ty is levied on imports from any source. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on account of invisibles, including expenses related to tourism, is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allow- ance for tourist travel is the equivalent of $3,000 a person for each journey, regardless of age. The busi- ness travel allowance is $200 a day, up to a maxi- mum of $5,000 a trip (in addition to the standard allowance of $3,000). The allowance may be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, and bank- er's checks, or may be used with credit cards (i.e., foreign exchange use by means of credit cards is included in the travel allowance). Resident travel- ers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Residents may make support or g ift remittances abroad of up to $2,000 a year. The maximum exchange allowance for students studying at institutions of higher edu- cation abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. Residents are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, up to $1,500 a year. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permit- ted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equiva- lent of $100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency with a limit for each visit of $5,000 for a person over 18 years and of $2,000 for a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. A resident going abroad for medical treatment who requires hospitalization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, he is permitted to pay the remainder of the fee against bills. Additional or subsequent pay- ments may be authorized on request. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Remittances of prof its/dividends from foreign direct investment are permitted after payment of local income taxes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for sanitary control. Exports of oil and defense equip- ment to (and signing of defense contracts with) South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in for- eign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of export and must be surrendered or held in a PATAM or a PAMAH account. However, exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 ISRAEL in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of cus- toms duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Com- pany (IFTRIC) provides an export insurance facility that covers export receipts against exchange rate fluctuations. Since April 1, 1993, the maximum compensation has been limited to 2 percent of the value added of export products. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in gen- eral, be surrendered to an authorized dealer, or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM or PAMAH accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than securi- ties and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immi- grants are exempt from the requirement to surren- der their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There is no limit on the amount of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferen- tial treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment. This law grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent, or less in certain circumstances, on income resulting from these investments. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "approved enterprises/7 "approved investments/' or "approved loans/' Approved enterprise status is granted to economi- cally viable enterprises (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, and agriculture (a separate law applies to agriculture); (2) established in priority areas; or (3) contributing to improvements in the balance of payments. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years, and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 percent a year. Direct for- eign borrowing by nonbank residents is permitted. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets must be surrendered or held in a PATAM or PAMAH account. Israeli mutual trust funds are permitted to invest abroad up to 10 percent of their portfolio of financial assets (up to 50 percent in the case of funds specializing in foreign currency investments). Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or income from these assets. Indi- vidual residents may buy foreign securities traded abroad, provided that the securities are held in a safe-keeping deposit with an authorized dealer. Individuals are permitted to engage in financial options trading. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years. Capital transfers abroad by resi- dents, other than new immigrants, of funds they brought in require a special permit from the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange. Such permits are nor- mally granted up to 40 percent of own funds to any incorporated Israeli firm that is contemplating investment abroad. Emigrants are permitted to transfer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equiva- lent of $4,000 a year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real estate, traded securities, and units of mutual trust funds in Israel. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, nonresidents must prove to an authorized dealer that these were pur- chased with foreign currency through an autho- rized dealer. Direct loans from nonresidents to Israeli residents are not restricted. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Domestic banks are permitted to lend to nonresidents against collateral that is realizable in foreign currency. Gold Gold bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 17 percent. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 9. The midpoint ra te in relation to the currency basket was devalued by 3 percent, and the daily rate of adjustment of the midpoint rate was changed to 0.0211 percent so as to give an annual ra te of devaluation of 8 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 259 Imports and Import Payments August 2. Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year were permitted. Capital January 30. (1) Proceeds from sales of bonds and mutual funds originally purchased with foreign cur- rency by nonresidents were permitted to be con- verted into foreign currency; (2) nonresidents were permitted to maintain convertible domestic currency deposits at authorized banks; and (3) nonresidents were permitted to borrow in domestic currency from authorized banks against foreign currency collateral. July 1. (1) Individual residents were permitted to invest in a wide range of foreign traded securities (recognized foreign securities), provided that the securities purchased are held in a safe-keeping deposit with an authorized dealer; (2) all residents were permitted to open and maintain foreign cur- rency deposit accounts (PAMAH) (previously only the business sector was allowed to operate these accounts); and (3) individuals were allowed to engage in financial options trading (previously such transactions were permitted only for risk- hedging purposes). Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The 4 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange to residents for purposes of tourism and for transfers abroad was abolished. April 1. The maximum compensation provided under the export insurance facility for exchange rate risk was limited to 2 percent of the value added. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The rate of value-added tax levied on all imported and domestically produced goods was reduced to 17 percent from 18 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The tax of NIS 250 on travel abroad by residents was abolished. Gold April 29. Residents were allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates would be treated as foreign securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira.1 The Italian authorities do not intervene in the exchange market, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions. Rates for 20 foreign currencies2 are quoted daily by the Bank of Italy. On December 31,1992, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,470.86 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may carry out spot and forward foreign exchange operations and transact currency options either with authorized banks or with foreign counterparts. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected ei- ther through authorized intermediaries (the Bank of Italy, authorized banks, the Postal Administration) or directly, that is, by drawing on external accounts, through material delivery of means of payment in It- aly or abroad, or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a- vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIQ) on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return (Comunicazione valutaria statistica). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1 With effect from September 17,1992, Italy withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). 2Aus tra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 1952, Italy notified the Fund on August 28, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with autho- rized banks in lire and in foreign exchange, which may be freely debited and credited upon their request. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14,1990 and Decree No. 68 of October 30,1990, both of which entered into effect on November 20, 1990. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped into three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (EC countries), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other countries asso- ciated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises most of the Eastern Euro- pean countries, China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be imported without quantitative restrictions and those that require a special license. Import lib- eralization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3 and for some countries of Zones B and C. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricul- tural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barri- ers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EC countries. Pay- ments for imports are not regulated. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 261 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Domestic and foreign bank notes up to the equiva- lent of Lit 20 million exported across the border by residents are free from restriction. Exports exceed- ing this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes and according to the regulations on money laundering. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are governed by Decree No. 313 of July 14, 1990 and by Decree No. 68 of October 30, 1990, both of which entered into effect on November 20,1990. Exports to any country of prod- ucts listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts from invisi- bles. Domestic and foreign bank notes up to Lit 20 million or its equivalent imported across the border by residents are free from restriction. Imports exceeding this amount must be made through authorized intermediaries for recording and fiscal monitoring purposes. Capital Residents are free to undertake financial transac- tions, including direct investments and purchases and sales of any foreign securities, real estate investments, and loans. They may also freely hold foreign exchange and lire in any form in Italy and abroad. Residents cannot enter or leave the country with bearer securi- ties worth more than Lit 20 million. They are allowed to import or export across the border nonbearer secu- rities worth more than Lit 20 million, provided that they deposit a declaration with the customs authority. Nonresidents must declare to customs cash and bearer securities worth more than Lit 20 million they bring into Italy if they intend to re-export them. The above limits do not apply to transfers effected by banks acting as senders or beneficiaries. However, banks are obliged to declare transfers by filling out a special customs form. Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are not restricted, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Gold The purchase and sale of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for industrial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The importation and exportation of gold coins, includ- ing coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are free. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to the value-added tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement September 13. The central rate of the Italian lira against other currencies participating in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS was devalued by 7 percent. September 17. The Italian authorities temporarily withdrew the lira from the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism of the EMS, and the lira was allowed to float. Imports and Import Payments During the year, the EC Commission authorized Italy to exclude two categories of products from the application of Article 115 of the Rome Treaty. The products involved were bananas from outside the ACP (African, Caribbean, and Pacific States) and automobiles from Japan. These products remained under Article 115 until the end of 1992. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) Capital October 23. The reserve requirement on lira- denominated interbank deposits held by nonresi- dent banks with Italian banks was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar. The Jamaican authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the spot and forward exchange rates are determined by supply and demand conditions in the interbank market. On December 31, 1992, the average spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$22.15 and J$22.20, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The foreign exchange market is operated by the commercial banks, other authorized dealers, and the Bank of Jamaica. The commercial banks buy and sell for their own account. Foreign exchange bureaus function as points of collection, and they are required to sell all the foreign exchange they purchase to the commercial banks and other autho- rized dealers. Proceeds from official loans, divest- ment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector are sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica. While there is no restriction on transac- tions in any currency, the principal foreign curren- cies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar (trade in other curren- cies is optional and negotiable between participat- ing banks). While the Bank of Jamaica is primarily responsi- ble for payments of obligations on government imports of goods and services and official debt, the public entities are free to conduct their own foreign exchange transactions. Since the amounts sold directly to the Bank of Jamaica from the sources indicated above are insufficient to meet the pay- ments to be effected by it, the Bank of Jamaica pur- chases its additional requirement from the foreign exchange market at the prevailing rate. All private sector payments are transacted through the commercial banking system and other authorized dealers. The commercial banks also han- dle most service payments. On November 1, 1990, the Bank of Jamaica, in consultation with the other central banks in the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), sus- pended clearing arrangements within the frame- work of CARICOM. The Bank of Jamaica no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in con- vertible currencies. The commercial banks and other authorized dealers may engage in forward operations without restriction, and all proceeds, except those that must be surrendered directly to the Bank of Jamaica, may be sold on the forward exchange market at rates negotiated with customers. While the Bank of Jamaica does not regulate the forward market, there is an understanding that it maintains a combined long position on spot and forward contracts equiva- lent to 20 percent of the average daily purchases for each bank over a specified period. Amounts in excess of the prescribed long position are offered for sale to another commercial bank or to the Bank of Jamaica by noon of the following day. There is also an implied limit on the short position on for- ward contracts equivalent to 10 percent of the aver- age daily forward purchases for each bank over a specified period. The Bank of Jamaica reserves the right to participate in the forward market. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 22,1963. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Act previously adminis- tered by the Bank of Jamaica on behalf of the Minis- ter of Finance was repealed on August 17,1992. The provision regarding prohibition of trading in for- eign exchange, except by and through an autho- rized dealer, was incorporated in the Bank of Jamaica Act. The Minister of Finance, however, retains the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of for- eign currency. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an external account or a for- eign currency account. Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an external account or in any foreign currency. ^11 currencies other than the Jama ica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution External and Blocked Accounts Imports and Import Payments JAMAICA 263 The commercial banks are empowered to open external accounts in Jamaica dollars for residents and nonresidents. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresi- dents. External accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to res- idents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Before September 25, 1991, accounts that were credited mainly by proceeds of sales of properties owned by emigrants and not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and pro- ceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) were designated as blocked accounts. Nonresidents may use blocked funds for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities, local mort- gages, or other investments approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Applications for the release of funds in blocked accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the liberalization of the foreign exchange market, no new blocked accounts have been allowed to be opened, and a timetable has been established for the phasing out of existing accounts. Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Effective September 25, 1991, residents and non- residents have been allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts locally or abroad without restric- tion. These accounts are subject to the ordinary tax laws of Jamaica and the foreign country. Before the new legislation was introduced, resi- dents and nonresidents could maintain foreign exchange "A" accounts, credited with foreign exchange not earned from exports of goods and ser- vices. Since September 25, 1991, residents have not been allowed to open new "A" accounts, and exist- ing account holders have been prohibited from making further deposits to these accounts. Balances in these accounts, however, continue to enjoy bene- fits of the account —that is, interest earned on deposits is tax free. Imports from, or originating in, South Africa and Haiti are prohibited. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endan- ger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without license. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade Administra- tor, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Since June 1991, motor vehicles are no longer licensed, but a permit is required for gov- ernment statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without refer- ence to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports are subject to customs tar iffs in compli- ance with the Common External Tariff (CET) Arrangement of CARICOM. The member countries of CARICOM have agreed (in October 1992) on a phased reduction in the level and dispersion of the regional CET over the next five years. As a result, the range of import tariff rates in Jamaica will be changed from 0-45 percent to 5-30 percent, effec- tive April 1,1993, and eventually to 5-20 percent by the end of 1996. Some agricultural products will remain subject to a stamp duty at a rate of up to 95 percent, and these will be reduced over a three- year period to be consistent with the CET. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.2 However, specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, fire- arms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Commercial banks and other authorized dealers provide foreign exchange for most service transac- tions, including business and other travel, insur- ance, commissions, private interest payments, medical expenses, foreign exchange refunds, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved, net of taxes, without restriction, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. 2 This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Haiti, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, South Africa, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require a specific license. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to Haiti and South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JAMAICA Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their net salary during the period of their contract, and their accumulated assets at the end of the con- tract period. All proceeds from invisibles may be transacted in the foreign exchange market without restriction. Capital As of September 25, 1991, all capital flows (both inflows and outflows) became free of restrictions, except that domestic financial institutions (such as life insurance companies, commercial banks, trust companies, finance houses, building societies, unit trusts, pension funds, credit unions, and other orga- nizations that are repositories for domestic financial savings) are required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to non- resident-controlled companies is, in principle, sub- ject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident out- side the CARICOM area. Such lending is, in princi- ple, subject to approval from the Bank of Jamaica. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for .the conversion of certain foreign com- mercial bank debts to Jamaica into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation is prohibited for three years. Capital repatriation is also prohibited for three years for investments in priority sectors and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents, other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement August 6. Authorized foreign exchange dealers voluntarily began to sell to the Bank of Jamaica 5 percent of their daily purchases of foreign exchange. Each authorized dealer was entitled to buy back up to 50 percent of the amount it had sold, with a monthly limit of one-third of the amount of its sales. August 17. The Exchange Control Act was repealed, and the following provisions were incor- porated into the Bank of Jamaica Act: (1) a prohibition against trading in foreign currency except by and through an authorized dealer; (2) provisions under which the Minister of Finance may issue directions to specified classes of persons as regards the acquisition of foreign currency; and (3) provisions related to offenses associated with the violation of the above. Imports and Import Payments October 31. The member countries of CARICOM agreed on a phased reduction in the level and dis- persion of the regional Common External Tariff over the next five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992 was ¥ 124.65 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their cus- tomers, with nonresident banks, and among them- selves. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major interna- tional foreign exchange markets. There are no offi- cially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 1,1964. 1952, Japan notified the Fund on July 10,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Coun- cil Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro). Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are not limited to current transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or pay- ments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments The exchange and trade control system is oper- ated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Minis- try of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requirements are han- dled by the MITI. With effect from January 1, 1992, inward direct investments have to be reported to the Minister of Finance and other appropriate min- isters after such investments take place in accor- dance with the amendment of the law enacted in April 1991. Outward direct investments require prior notice to the Ministry of Finance. On March 18, 1991, restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to persons within the territory of Kuwait, which were imposed in August 1990, were lifted. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, Imports may be made freely, with the exception of specifically restricted items or items from desig- nated countries. The Import Restriction System cov- ers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authoriza- tion from the MITI, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importa- tion of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq require permission from the MITI. Import settlements effected under the special methods (that is, those effected by means of open accounts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 JAPAN more than two years of shipment) require authori- zation from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without limit. Gifts and donations (except by government institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) that are valued at more than ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment af ter verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad may be made with- out limit. Other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in con- nection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. The exportation of domestic bank notes exceeding ¥ 5 million requires ministerial approval. Intermediating business related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq requires permission from the MITI. All other payments for invisibles from Japan to residents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq require permis- sion from the MITI. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the For- eign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export vol- ume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1992, voluntary restraints were applied to exports of certain textile items and machine tools to the United States and the European Community (EC), to exports of passenger cars to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EC. In addition, exports of some other products, including passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, and vid- eocassette recorders to the EC, were subject to mon- itoring by the Government. At the end of 1992, 27 export cartels were operat- ing under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were sub- ject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exporta- tion to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settle- ments are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the MITI. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq require permission from the MITI. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may freely bring in any amount in Japanese or foreign currency Intermediating business related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or Iraq and other countries and exports of services to the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) or Iraq require permis- sion from the MITI. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Minister of Finance or MITI may request or order that the transaction be suspended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice with- out a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. How- ever, acquisition of such securities through securi- ties firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice with- out a waiting period. Under emergency conditions, however, most capital transactions that are not sub- ject to prior approval in normal conditions may be made subject to prior approval. Emergency condi- tions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of payments d iff i- cult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or estab- lishment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign investor of the shares of a listed company (including individ- ual companies for which the stock price in over-the- counter transactions is made public by the Securi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 267 ties Dealers Association) that reach 10 percent or more when added to those owned by related per- sons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one- year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign ownership is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Requests or orders for sus- pension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or minis- ters concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enter- prises in related lines of activities, the general per- formance of the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law governing foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign inves- tors are required to report only after undertaking investment unless national security interest is involved, except for four industries reserved under the Capital Movements Liberalization Code of the OECD (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum, and leather and leather products); this exception became effective on January 1,1992. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, issue of bonds abroad by residents, issue of bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct invest- ment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to sus- pension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in the Minister's opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing, (2) domestic and financial capital markets, (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth perfor- mance of the national economy, and (4) implementa- tion of Japan's international agreements, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consideration is deemed harmless. Other transactions by nonresidents may generally be carried out freely Overseas deposits by residents, borrowing and lending in foreign cur- rency between residents other than those carried out by an authorized bank in Japan, and issuance of yen- denominated bonds abroad by nonresidents may require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Issuance of securities or bonds by residents abroad and of secu- rities or bonds denominated in foreign currency by residents in Japan requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice and may accept foreign currency depos- its from residents and nonresidents and make for- eign currency loans to residents. Foreign currency or yen deposits of nonresidents and residents are sub- ject to minimum reserve requirements adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. Financial institutions apply the following pru- dential guidelines to capital transactions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds equivalent to 20 percent of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents; (4) a ceiling on for- eign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30 percent of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceil- ing was relaxed to 50 percent on the basis of each institutional account, and the ceiling for foreign- affiliated companies was raised to 70 percent); (5) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency-denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (6) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign cur- rency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may freely transfer any amount in any foreign currency. Overseas deposits by resident individuals and corporations with a maturity of less than two years and exceeding ¥ 30 million and up to the equivalent of ¥ 100 million are subject to automatic prior approval from the Bank of Japan; overseas deposits up to the equivalent of ¥30 million are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, and securi- ties are permitted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 JAPAN domestic transactions. The importation and expor- tation of gold bullion are free from licensing. Exter- nal futures in gold may be freely traded by designated companies. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments June 26. Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) were subject to permission from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The law governing the importation of technology under patent rights was amended to require Japanese residents importing technology to report transactions following the conclusion of the contract; in cases where national security interest is involved, however, transactions would continue to be reported prior to the conclusion of the contract. June 26. Intermediating business related to trade between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and other countries requires per- mission from the MITI. Imports of services from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) also require permission from the MITI. Any other payments for invisibles from Japan to residents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) require permission from the Minister of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The volume of passenger car exports to the United States under voluntary export restraints for the period April 1,1992-March 31,1993 was set at 1.65 million units. June 26. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) became subject to permission from the MITI. Proceeds from Invisibles June 26. Intermediating business related to trade between th$ Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and exports of services to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) were subject to permission from the MITI. Capital January 1. An amendment to the law governing foreign direct investment went into effect. Under the amended law, foreign investors would be required to report only ex post all investments, except for those in the industries involving national security (i.e., aircraft, weapons, nuclear power, and space development), four industries as reserved under the Capital Movement Liberalization Code of the OECD (agriculture, forestry and fishery, mining and petroleum, and leather and leather products), and those in several specified sectors. June 26. The following capital transactions with residents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) were subject to prior notice to the Minister of Finance: loans to residents of this country; direct investments, and issuance and sales of securities in Japan by residents of this country; issuance and sales of securities in this country by residents of Japan; and guaranteeing by residents of Japan of securities issued in this coun- try by subsidiaries of Japanese enterprises. The fol- lowing capital transactions were subject to permission from the Minister of Finance: deposit contract or trust contract with residents of the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene- gro) and purchases and sales contracts of foreign means of payment or claimable rights with resi- dents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar. Its exchange rate is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to the basket of five currencies that consti- tute the SDR, with the weights determined by their relative importance to Jordan's international trans- actions. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Jordan (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were JD 0.690 and JD 0.692, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the central bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of govern- ment departments and certain other approved insti- tutions. Authorized banks are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for specified commercial transac- tions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. Each authorized dealer's forward transac- tions are subject to quantitative limits. For corpora- tions or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the central bank may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the central bank, which also issues exchange permits; the central bank has delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for personal invisi- ble payments. Import policy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Supply, and Agriculture. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kro- nor, and Swiss francs. Outward payments may be made in any cur- rency. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be collected in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan, from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash in foreign bank notes from abroad. Jordan has concluded bilateral trade agreements with India, Romania, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey, and bilateral trade and payments agreements with Iraq and the Republic of Yemen. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the central bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. The approval of the central bank is necessary for transfers from resident or non- resident accounts, but transfers between nonresi- dent accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in con- vertible currency and may be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in international markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in a foreign currency may be opened at the central bank by governmental and semigovernmental entities, as well as by the special- ized credit institutions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital national interest, provided that outstanding balances (including inter- est earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1 million. This ceiling may be raised in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 500,000. If an account has been credited with currency notes, or with a transfer through the banking system or with checks in for- eign currency, it may be debited only with currency permits; permits are not required if the account has 2 The agreement with the Republic of Yemen is inactive. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 JORDAN been credited with transfers through the banking system or with checks in foreign currency. Jordani- ans who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may continue to keep accounts in foreign currencies without limit for up to five years, a f ter which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 500,000 must be con- verted into Jordan dinars. Licensed banks and financial companies may extend credit facilities to residents and nonresidents against their foreign currency deposits up to JD 100,000 without the prior approval of the central bank. Credits exceed- ing JD 100,000 may also be extended without the central bank's prior approval, provided that they are fully backed by deposits in foreign currency Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items3 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa, are prohib- ited. All other imports, unless covered by an agree- ment between Jordan and the exporting country (that is, agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value payable when the import license is issued. Imports requiring a license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for imports except those made by government depart- ments and certain approved institutions and indi- vidual permits of less than JD300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior approval from the central bank, which is normally given for essen- tial imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Imports into Free Zones With the discontinuation of central bank issuance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to pro- 3 These include carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and military un iforms. Certain of these com- modities may be imported, however, from A rab Common Mar- ket countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain agricultural commodities may be prohibited in good crop years. vide foreign currencies to finance such transactions. Banks are authorized to require advance import deposits against these imports at their discretion. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally per- mitted within certain limits: remittances to resi- dents' dependents, reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad, expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; educational expenses, expenses for medical treatment; and insurance pay- ments in accordance with special regulations.4 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible payments except those of government departments and certain approved institutions, per- mits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, credited from sources outside Jordan, and those with a value of less than JD 300. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel and pilgrimages is the equivalent of JD 20,000 a person (JD 2,000 for children under 18). An additional amount equivalent to JD 20,000 is allowed for medical treatment or hospital charges. These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allow- ance equivalent to JD 20,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances may be made by postal order for amounts not exceeding the equiva- lent of JD 10 a month to any one person residing abroad and are not subject to this ceiling. The authorized amount for subscriptions to newsletters, magazines, and scientific bulletins is the equivalent of JD 1,000. The policy on payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory In practice, the central bank does not restrict remit- tances of income accruing to nonresidents or of sav- ings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 5,000 in Jordanian bank notes and coins. Nonres- idents working in Jordan may transfer 70 percent of 4A11 insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance con- tracts concluded before May 1965. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 271 their salaries if they ma in ta in a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they may transfer up to JD 100 a month up to a maximum of JD 1,200 a year. Furthermore, all trav- elers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or let- ters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the central bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the cus- toms authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods of Jordanian origin must be repatriated through authorized banks; pro- ceeds from re-exports of goods must be repatriated within three months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain 10 percent of proceeds in deposits at local commercial banks or financial institutions and to use them to pay for imports of inputs. Fertil- izer and mining companies must sell balances exceeding 10 percent of proceeds to the central bank, which provides their foreign exchange requirements. The central bank provides advances to autho- rized banks against export credits and bills for products whose local value-added tax is less than 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through an authorized bank. Travel- ers entering Jordan may bring in any amount of Jor- danian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person considered for exchange control purposes as a resi- dent of Jordan may be required by the central bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign exchange at his disposal. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but outward transfers require approval and are not nor- mally permitted, except that the central bank may grant permission to banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors to trans- fer funds abroad for specified investment or operat- ing purposes. The transfer of funds for purposes of investment in Arab countries is permitted only if bilateral agreements have been concluded between Jordan and the country concerned; each investor must provide foreign exchange to finance these investments. Current income resulting from nonres- ident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be remitted, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in accordance with the guidelines of the central bank. Af ter two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted with the approval of the Minis- try of Industry and Trade and the central bank. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Foreign Companies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits to for- eign companies that establish branches in Jordan for purposes of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonres- ident status for exchange control purposes. Pre- mium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible curren- cies by nonresidents; proceeds from redemption at maturity, including interest, are transferable in any convertible currency. Gold The central bank has issued ten gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are permitted without the prior approval of the central bank, whereas exports of gold in any form require prior approval from the central bank. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 4. Foreign exchange houses were per- mitted to reopen. Imports and Import Payments 5 Approval is not granted for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. May 26. The advance deposit requirement for imports into Jordan or the free zone and for transit imports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 Payments for Invisibles JORDAN March 31. The amount of Jordanian bank notes and coins residents and nonresidents are permitted to take abroad was increased to JD 5,000 from JD300. November 8. The annual amount of foreign exchange that can be taken out or transferred abroad by residents and nonresidents was increased to the equivalent of JD 20,000 from JD 10,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 11. The commission on all payments by Jordanian exporters through the central bank for commodities exported in accordance with bilateral trade agreements was increased to 2 percent from 0.5 percent. August 1. The central bank made the following adjustments to the general conditions concerning its advance loans to licensed banks and financial companies against export credits and bills and against bank draf ts and collections: (1) the maxi- mum coverage of the preshipment rediscounting facility was increased to 75 percent from 60 percent of the total value of export credits; (2) the maximum coverage of the post-shipment rediscounting facil- ity was increased to 90 p'ercent from 80 percent of the total value of bills, bank drafts, and collections; (3) the lending rate to banks on export financing was set at 5.0 percent below the prevailing discount rate; (4) the maximum period on export credits for all countries was extended to nine months; and (5) the minimum percentage of the local value- added tax to be accepted by the central bank for export financing purposes was reduced to 25 percent from 40 percent. August 1. The Export Development and Trade Center was established. Gold March 31. The importation of gold was permitted without the prior approval of the central bank; the exportation of gold remained subject to prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN1 (Position as of January 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the Russian Ruble. The exchange rate system consists of three rates: the official rate, the auction rate, and the market-determined rate. The official exchange rate is defined as the exchange rate of the Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar as ascertained by the Central Bank of Russia based on the Moscow Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange. It is applied to foreign exchange surrendered to the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK), official external debt-service payments, budgetary operations (e.g., use of for- eign currency from the Republican Hard Currency Fund), and to state enterprises for accounting pur- poses. The NBK publishes the exchange rate of the Russian ruble for the ECU and 25 currencies that are quoted by the Central Bank of Russia on the basis of their cross-rate relationships with the U.S. dollar in the international market. On Decem- ber 31, 1992, the official rate was rub 414.5 per US$1. Auction rates emerge from a weekly auction of foreign exchange held at the NBK's Hard Currency Exchange, in which the NBK and authorized for- eign exchange dealers participate. A single fixed rate is applied to all transactions conducted at each auction, the buying and selling rates being the same. Purchasers of foreign exchange are subject to a commission of 0.3 percent payable to the auction and a 1 percent commission payable to the purchas- ing bank. Residents planning to sell or purchase foreign currency at the auction (via authorized banks) are required to present documents establish- ing compliance with prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Foreign currency purchased at the auc- tion and not used within two months must be re- auctioned. Transactions are limited to the spot exchange of U.S. dollars. At the auction held on January 27,1993, the exchange rate was rub 580 per US$1. A third, market-determined exchange rate emerges from approved foreign exchange opera- tions of authorized banks with resident enterprises and individuals. The spread between the buying and selling rates is not allowed to exceed 10 percent. Foreign exchange purchased in this market may be used only for business and tourist l rThe Republic of Kazakhs tan became a member of the IMF on Ju ly 15,1992. travel. On December 31, 1992, the buying and sell- ing rates were about rub 500 and rub 550, respec- tively, per US$1. Administration of Control The legal basis for many foreign exchange trans- actions and the system of foreign exchange control is in transition. The authority to enact the exchange control regulations is vested in the Parliament, which approves specific proposals made by the Council of Ministers. Exchange controls are admin- istered by the NBK. In addition to the NBK, nine commercial banks are authorized to conduct foreign exchange transac- tions and hold correspondent accounts abroad. Six other commercial banks must handle their foreign exchange operations through these nine commer- cial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. At the end of 1992, the outstanding bal- ances were frozen, and new accounts were estab- lished for 1993. Arrangements governing settlements of balances outstanding at the end of 1993 have not yet been formulated. Settlements with countries with which Kazakhstan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Residents of Kazakhstan may make and receive international payments and trans- fers in any convertible currency as well as in Russian rubles. In general, foreign currency may not be used for the settlement of domestic transactions between residents.3 Transactions between residents and non- residents involving the sale or purchase of foreign currency are limited to those conducted through authorized banks. 2At the end of 1992, Kazakhs tan maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with China, Cuba, and a number of states of the former U.S.S.R. 3 Exemptions are permitted for payments to residents provid- ing freight, insurance, or other intermediary services in respect of foreign currency-denominated trade; payments to residents supplying inputs required for the production of exports sold for foreign currencies; payments for selected domestic telecommu- nications services; payments to banks and other financial institu- tions in respect of liabilities incurred in foreign currencies; and where otherwise specially authorized by the NBK. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 KAZAKHSTAN Resident and Nonresident Accounts Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Resident individuals and enterprises may main- tain convertible foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. These accounts, which earn interest, may be credited with retained export earn- ings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances in these accounts may be freely used, af ter payment of taxes to the Republican Hard Cur- rency Fund, for any purpose. Residents may also maintain convertible currency accounts abroad with permission from the NBK. Nonresidents may hold accounts in Kazakhstan in domestic or foreign currencies. Withdrawals from these accounts, including transfers abroad, are not restricted. Imports and Exports Approval from the NBK is required for advance import payments in excess of $20,000 when they exceed 30 percent of the import bill and for import payments due more than 180 days af ter the receipt of the import shipment. Other payments for imports are not restricted. Licenses are required to import certain products, and the importation of certain others is prohibited or subject to quotas. The lists of products subject to export licenses and quotas are issued by the Minis- try of Foreign Economic Relations. Thirty percent of all proceeds from exports are subject to the surrender requirement at the market exchange rate, of which 10 percent must be sold to the NBK and the remainder sold to the commercial banks. Export proceeds are subject to taxes ranging from 20 percent to 40 percent, depending on the product, except for endangered wildlife and fossil bones, which are taxed at 80 percent. A tax of 60 percent is applied to earnings from vodka exports. All taxes are payable in foreign currencies. The payment of taxes may be postponed by pro- ducing a guarantee issued by an authorized bank. Purchases by residents of foreign exchange for tourist purposes are limited to $500 a person (there are no limits on withdrawals from convertible cur- rency accounts for the same purposes). Purchases of foreign exchange for business travel abroad are, in principle, subject to limits, which are based on country-specific norms for accommodation and subsistence expenses but are not officially enforced. In practice, banks are free to grant exemptions to these limits. Foreign exchange may be purchased without limit for purposes of study abroad if the appropriate documents are produced. Remittances for family maintenance purposes are subject to cer- tain limits. Payments for invisibles permitted to be made by residents are officially tolerated for nonresidents. Nonresident workers in Kazakhstan are free to make transfers abroad. The remittance of dividends and profits is subject to approval. Proceeds from invisibles earned by enterprises are subject to the same surrender requirement as that which applies to merchandise exports and to a tax of 20 percent. Proceeds from invisibles earned by private individuals are not subject to surrender requirements. Residents and nonresidents may bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding rub 1,000 a person. The exportation or importation of amounts exceeding rub 1,000 requires approval from the NBK. Capital Capital transactions between residents and non- residents require approval from the NBK. Foreign direct investments in the defense sector are prohib- ited. Neither residents nor nonresidents are permit- ted to own land. Gold All transactions in gold must be effected through the NBK, which buys gold products in the country at prices that are below world market prices. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of June 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, whose official exchange rate is pegged to a basket of currencies. The middle rate of the Kenya shil- ling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Kenya is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDK rate. The official exchange rate applies only to government and government- guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. All other transactions take place in the interbank foreign exchange market. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are set at 0.15 percent plus or minus the rate thus determined. On June 1,1993, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 63.9039 and K Sh 64.0960, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of New York U.S. dollar closing rates for the curren- cies concerned. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. The operation of foreign exchange bearer certifi- cates (FEBCs) has been temporarily suspended. Under an export foreign exchange retention scheme, exporters are allowed to retain 50 percent of foreign exchange proceeds in foreign currency accounts with banks in Kenya and may use the retained proceeds to finance business-related cur- rent expenses and debt-service payments or sell them to banks at a market-determined exchange rate. Banks, in turn, are permitted to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to any client at market-determined exchange rates for the same purposes, to purchase foreign exchange in the retention market for their own accounts, to offer forward exchange contracts to exporters and importers at market-determined rates without restriction on the amount or period covered, or sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to another bank. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canad ian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalan- geni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and Zambian kwacha. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark, for periods of up to three months for export receipts and up to six months for import payments, at pre- miums or discounts administratively set by the Central Bank. Forward cover is permitted for trade transactions only. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing, except for the Exchange Risk Assumption Fund, which covers the foreign exchange losses associated with exchange rate fluctuations occurring a f ter July 1, 1989 for three development finance institutions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import licenses, where required, rests with the Director. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director to the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Com- merce deals with export promotion and issues spe- cial licenses for the exportation of restricted goods, such as maize and other food products. Exports of certain agricultural products (beans, sugar, rice, raw cotton, maize, meal, and millet) require a spe- cial license. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of other countries may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an external account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an external account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 Nonresident Accounts KENYA Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of other countries with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated exter- nal accounts. They may be freely credited with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External accounts may be freely debited for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are cred- ited to blocked accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on blocked accounts may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as it accrues. Enterprises operating in export processing zones (EPZs) are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and may use the balances on these amounts to pay operating expenses; they may use balances in for- eign currency accounts to pay business-related expenses (including imports, debt service, and divi- dends). They are not required to surrender foreign exchange earnings to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except those on a short negative list for health, security, and environmental reasons, are free of licensing requirements. Customs tariffs are applied as the sole form of protection of domestic industry. There are seven customs tariff nomenclatures, with rates varying from zero to 40 percent. Exporters of horticultural goods and agro-based products are exempt from import duties and the value-added tax on imported inputs. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 2 percent of the cost and freight value of the appli- cation; imports intended for export production are exempt from the charge. When an exchange allocation license is obtained from the Central Bank or is not required, autho- rized banks are permitted to provide exchange against documents but normally not before cus- toms entry. Prior exchange control approval must 2 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and may not be redeemed earlier than f ive years from the date acquired. be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred-payment terms and for imports of machin- ery and equipment, which are regarded as a contri- bution toward equity capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. All imports with an f.o.b. value of more than K Sh 100,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a Clean Report of Findings. Authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until they receive the report. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to conduct insurance busi- ness in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are, in principle, unrestricted. Fees and other expenses for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 1.25 million a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified pur- poses may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for educa- tion expenses. Foreign nationals employed in Kenya (as well as certain categories of the self- employed, such as doctors and dentists) who have not been in the country for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one-third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 10,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, educational expenses, and so on, provided that their total remittances, including savings, do not exceed one-half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from their salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigration within that period. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 1 million of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted transfer is placed in a blocked account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years' maturity, after which the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident benefi- ciary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 277 10 percent of the book value of their properties as of September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. If they derive income from rent as well as from other sources, they must submit an application to the exchange control authorities for approval to remit such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 270,000 a person (K Sh 135,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every three years. Holders of one-way tick- ets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are entitled not to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 135,000 a person. Commercial banks may sellforeign exchange for business travel to Tanza- nia and Uganda of up to K Sh 10,800 a night for up to 10 days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 67,500 a day for up to 20 days. A onetime pil- grimage allowance of K Sh 270,000 for adults is available to persons who have not used the basic travel allowance during the last three years. Non- resident travelers may freely take out any unused balance of foreign currency notes they brought in. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on interna- tional flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 200 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the exportation of Kenyan bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange con- trol approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require special licenses and may be restricted to ensure adequate supplies in the domes- tic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses other than exchange control approval. Effective October 1,1987, coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respectively. Export pro- ceeds in foreign currencies must be collected in Kenya in an appropriate manner within three months of the date of exportation and sold to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an external account. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on the exportation of their curren- cies. The importation of domestic bank notes is pro- hibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 200 that they had previ- ously taken out. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted to remit savings from their salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 600,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 200,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments, not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 80,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 200,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a blocked account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is gen- erally not restricted, but to ensure eventual repatri- ation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign investors may repatriate the value of the original equity investment denominated in the currency in which it was initially made and the value of any profits that were reinvested and denominated in the currency of the original investment. Local bor- rowing by nonresident-owned or -controlled com- panies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in government securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KENYA All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a blocked account unless they are reinvested. Purchases of foreign securities by residents are subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange con- trol approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement August 20. An export retention scheme was introduced. Exporters of non trad i t ional goods (defined on a negative list) were allowed to retain 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in foreign currency accounts with banks in Kenya, to use the proceeds to finance business-related cur- rent expenses and debt-service payments, or to sell the proceeds to banks at a market-determined exchange rate. Banks, in turn, were permitted to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the reten- tion market to any client at market-determined exchange rates for the same purposes, to purchase foreign exchange in the retention market for their own accounts, to o f fer forward exchange contracts to exporters and importers at market-determined rates without restriction on the amount or the period covered, or to sell foreign exchange they purchase in the retention market to another bank. October 15. Bids at the coffee and tea auctions were required to be made, and transactions were required to be settled in U.S. dollars. November 6. The export retention scheme was extended to allow traditional exporters to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in for- eign currency accounts with banks in Kenya. Administration of Control June 4. The prohibition on trade with South Africa was removed. Imports and Import Payments June 4. The number of tariff nomenclatures was reduced to 9 from 11, and the highest du ty rate was lowered to 60 percent from 70 percent; the du ty rate on all items previously subject to a 60 percent du ty was lowered to 50 percent; the 2 percent duty was abolished; and a minimum du ty rate of 10 percent was introduced, with a few exemptions. Payments for Invisibles December 23. The adult pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 25,000 was raised to K Sh 50,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 10. The rate of export compensation for duties paid on imported inputs was reduced to 18 percent from 20 percent. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments February 1. Import and foreign exchange alloca- tion licenses were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds February 1. (I) The coverage of foreign exchange earnings that exporters may retain in their retention accounts was extended to include 100 percent of earnings from nontraditional exports and 50 percent of earnings from traditional exports and services; and (2) the exchange rate for transactions in retained foreign exchange was allowed to float freely. March 22. The export retention scheme was sus- pended, and import and foreign exchange alloca- tions licenses were reintroduced. May 14. (I) The export retention scheme was rein- troduced at the rate of 50 percent for all exports; and (2) import and foreign exchange allocation licenses were abolished, except for a short negative list of goods prohibited for health, security, or envi- ronmental reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. The Bank of Kiribati (the only commer- cial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Aus- tralian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Kiribati formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22,1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be under- taken with the Bank of Kiribati, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. The importation of a limited range of goods is prohib- 1 Canad ian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, Papua New Guinea kina, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Solomon Islands dol- lars, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Tongan pa'anga, Vanua tu va tu, and Western Samoa tala. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. ited for health, safety, or environmental, reasons. Tariffs apply to most private imports and range up to 75 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra may be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment and encourage export- promoting and import-substituting investments. All applications for foreign investment must be made to the Foreign Investment Commission, which approves applications of total foreign capital contribution up to $A 250,000. Applications with a higher capital contribution are approved by the Cabinet. Under the Foreign Investment Promotion Act, investors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw materials. Investments in pioneer industries are eligible for a tax holiday of up to six years. Repatriation of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position as of December 31,1992) •Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won. Since the introduction of a market average rate (MAR) system on March 2,1990, the Korean won-U.S. dol- lar rate has been determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won- U.S. dollar exchange rate in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within fixed margins of plus or minus 0.8 percent against the MAR of the previous day. The exchange rates of the won against curren- cies other than the U.S. dollar are determined in relation to the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies in the international market. On December 31, 1992, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was W 788.4. The buying and selling rates offered to customers are set freely by foreign exchange banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of for- ward contracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of a forward contract between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 1,1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank of Korea has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. Foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices of foreign banks in Korea, are authorized to engage in commercial interna- tional banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. The pro- ceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies. Residents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are made in designated foreign currencies. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment, or for payments relating to approved transactions. All residents are allowed to open foreign cur- rency deposit accounts. Holders of these accounts may change the foreign currency composition of the accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for most imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: automatic approval items and restricted items. All commodi- ties may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are on the restricted list. As of December 1992, 196 of the 10,417 basic items on the Harmonized System were classified as restricted. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classi- fication. Import licenses are granted only to regis- tered traders, who are required to have exported and /or imported a minimum value of $500,000 in 1 In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the prescribed currencies are those of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 281 any one of the last two calendar years. The com- mercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated. Safeguards against excessive imports are provided under the Foreign Trade Act of 1987. A seven-mem- ber Trade Commission established under this act determines whether imports have harmed domestic industries, and, if its finding is affirmative, it recom- mends the form of import relief to be provided, including quotas and quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require an individual license. Those connected with foreign trade, along with certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean com- panies are authorized to obtain foreign exchange to meet the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance; addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 60 days is $3,000 (the allowance for Korean nationals working in an overseas branch of a firm is $10,000). Credit card holders are allowed to charge, on an unlimited basis, all expenses directly associated with their travel during business and official trips to foreign countries. The basic monthly allowance for individual students living abroad is $2,000; students with a family receive an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and each child. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 per transaction to their parents and children abroad for living expenses and to their relatives abroad for a wedding gift or funeral donation. In addition, residents may remit up to $10,000 per transaction without approval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Governor of the Bank of Korea approves any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes in excess of the equiva- lent of $10,000 may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the country, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conversion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require indi- vidual licenses. All other products may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure. For- eign exchange proceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign cur- rency accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. However, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to $5,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresi- dents must register the foreign exchange they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $5,000. The importation by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by construction compa- nies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and a for- eign exchange bank must approve the conversion of these funds af ter ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is virtually automatic. Capital Overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents generally require approval. Overseas direct investments of less than $5 million by Korean residents are subject to a notification requirement by the Bank of Korea; investments of between $5 million and $10 million require approval from the Bank of Korea; and those of more than $10 million require approval from both the Bank of Korea and the Deliberation Committee for Overseas Invest- ment. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of expand- ing its overseas investment business or improving its financial status. Overseas portfolio investments may be made only by institutional investors and are lim- ited to $50 million ($100 million for securities or investment trust companies with an international business license and insurance companies with assets of over W 5 trillion). Prior approval from the Minister of Finance is required for loans exceeding $10 million to nonresidents by foreign exchange banks, loans by Korean residents to nonresidents, and loans to residents of countries with which Korea does not have diplomatic relations. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants varies with family size. Additional allowances for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 KOREA emigrant investment abroad are subject to the rec- ommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. Foreign exchange banks may not overbuy their foreign exchange position by more than 200 percent of the average total value of foreign exchange bought the preceding month; the portion used to hedge capital or operational funds is exempt from this limit. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the contracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows: Foreign Investment Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list. In December 1992, the negative list consisted of 222 out of a total of 1,148 industries, resulting in a liber- alization ratio of 80.7 percent. In the manufacturing sector, the negative list consisted of 13 out of 585 industries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 97.8 percent. The negative list distinguishes between the prohibited sector (activities reserved exclusively for the Government or public entities) and the restricted sector (activities that may be inju- rious to public health or moral standards). Restricted activities are not, in general, open to for- eign investment, but specific projects may be approved in accordance with established criteria. In general, foreign-invested companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that are accom- panied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been continuously reduced, and after-invest- ment controls have also been relaxed to treat for- eign and local companies on an equal basis. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list (which are subject to restrictions with respect to foreign equity participa- tion) that are designated as small or medium-size companies, as well as those in the wholesale and retail sectors, are subject to a notification require- ment. A foreign firm is permitted to engage in busi- ness 30 days after submitting this notification unless the notification is not accepted for reasons of national security, protection of the environment, or violation of antitrust or fair trade laws. The notifica- tion system has gradually been expanded, and all but a few liberalized industries have been covered by the system since the beginning of January 1993. Acquisition of land by foreign-invested companies is subject to the approval of the provincial and local governments. Investment approval is normally granted within 30 days. Remittances abroad of divi- dends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor are freely per- mitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is also freely permitted. Foreign membership of firms listed on the Korean Stock Market may not exceed 10 percent of a firm's equity, and individual foreign investors may not hold more than 3 percent of a firm's equity. Loans Authorization is required for all foreign borrow- ing by firms other than banks. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 million and with a maturity of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. Regula- tions governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of December 1990, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan Province of China (due to their geographical proximity) and to 60 days for imports originating in other countries. Foreign exchange banks must obtain approval for all borrowing exceeding $10 million with a matu- rity of over one year. Their oversold foreign exchange position may not exceed 20 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $10 million, whichever is greater. (For spot transactions only, the corresponding limit is 5 percent or $5 million, whichever is greater.) Subject to certain ceilings, branches of foreign banks can enter into foreign currency swap transac- tions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic cur- rency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any approval or license. This means that certain com- memorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products whose primary component is gold, require the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domesti- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 283 cally produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The margin within which the exchange rate of the won against the U.S. dollar is permitted to fluctuate was widened to plus or minus 0.8 percent around the market average rate. September 1. The European Currency Unit (ECU) was included in the list of prescribed currencies. The deutsche mark was permitted to be used in the call market (the existing regulation had allowed only the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar in this market). September 1. The regulations on forward exchange transactions were liberalized as follows: (1) transactions of less than $1 million were exempted from documentation requirements, pro- vided they are declared and conform to the "real demand" principle, and transactions of between $1 million and $3 million would require documen- tation only a f ter the fact; (2) branches of foreign insurance companies were allowed to engage in forward foreign exchange transactions up to the limit of their capital base (as in the case of branches of foreign banks and securities firms); and (3) transactions related to investment of for- eign funds in Korean stocks were permitted. September 1. Foreign exchange used to hedge exchange risk on capital transactions was exempted from the limit on the overall overbought position. The limit on the overall oversold position was raised to the greater of 20 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $10 million (previously $5 million), whichever is greater. An oversold posi- tion for spot transactions was allowed, with a limit of 5 percent of the average outstanding amount of foreign exchange bought in the previous month or $5 million, whichever is greater. Resident and Nonresident Accounts September 1. The ceiling on foreign currency deposits maintained by resident firms (which is based on the amount of external transactions) was increased to 10 percent. Companies with records of external transactions were exempted from docu- mentation requirements irrespective of the amount of annual transactions (previously, exemptions were granted only to companies with transactions of less than $10 million). Capital January 1. Foreign investors were permitted to invest in the domestic stock market, subject to the restriction that foreign ownership of listed firms may not exceed 10 percent of total equity and indi- vidual foreign investors may not hold more than 3 percent of total equity. July 1. Investments in stocks by resident foreign financial institutions were subject to the same limits as those by institutions owned by nationals. Resi- dent foreign financial institutions were allowed to undertake over-the-counter transactions in listed bonds. September 1. The overall limit of $200,000 each emigrant family is allowed to transfer was abol- ished, and limits would be established on a case-by- case basis. September 1. The regulations on direct invest- ments abroad were liberalized as follows: (1) investments of up to $5 million would not require prior approval from the Bank of Korea but only notification to the Bank of Korea (the previous limit had been $2 million), while investments of between $5 million and $10 million would require the approval of the Bank of Korea, and investments of more than $10 million would require approval from the Bank of Korea and the Deliberation Com- mittee for Overseas Investment; (2) restrictions on investments in countries with which Korea does not have diplomatic ties were eased; (3) investments in foreign joint ventures in which Korean investors own less than 20 percent of total equity would be treated as overseas direct investments, provided that Korean investors establish special relationships with the foreign ventures (e.g., helping to appoint executives and supplying raw materials); (4) direct investments in high-technology and major resource developments would be encouraged and treated favorably; (5) Korean firms merging with, or taking over, a foreign company would be allowed to obtain offshore financing; and (6) restrictions on local financing of Korean-owned companies were relaxed. September 1. The limit on investments in securi- ties, insurance, and investment trust companies was raised from $10 million to $50 million, and the limit on similar investments by companies with international business licenses and insurance com- panies with assets of over W 5 trillion was raised from $50 million to $100 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the rela- tive importance of currencies in Kuwait's trade and financial relations. The Central Bank of Kuwait sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the bas- ket. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.30288 and KD 0.30298, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The most common arrangement for handling forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors is through dealings in the international forward exchange markets. The forward market for Kuwaiti dinar trading has been temporarily suspended since the war with Iraq. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited con- trol over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and by the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with China, Cyprus, Egypt, Hungary, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Thailand, and Turkey 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or received from them for any type of transaction. Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegetables; licenses, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and compa- nies. Registered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for onetime use. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial establishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. The importation of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork and food- stuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered importers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all part- ners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nation- als own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emir- ates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tar iffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. In accordance with a GCC resolution (of 1985), Kuwa it implements a system of preferential tariffs allowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value- 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 285 added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 percent, and 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the for- mula is reduced by 5 percent in the case of con- sumer goods. In 1985, tar iffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper prod- ucts, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986, customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, commercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987, the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. During 1989, import tariffs were imposed on air filters for automobiles (25 percent) and on wooden nails (15 percent); tariff protection on a number of other items was extended. Imports of por- table telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for gov- ernment procurement of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti- produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are accorded a 5 percent price margin over goods produced outside the GCC. The maximum du ty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is more than 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foodstuffs as well as some industrial establishments7 imports of machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. On March 14,1991, the tar iff rate was reduced to zero for a transitional period of six months to encourage imports of goods into Kuwa it for post- war reconstruction. On December 29, 1991, this exemption was extended through March 1992. In July 1992, import duties were reinstated at the rate of 4 percent, except for capital and raw materials.2 2 This exemption is expected to be reviewed in March 1993. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in times of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; new Kuwaiti companies must be at least 51 percent owned by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of GCC countries in companies estab- lished in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolu- tion, to eliminate restrictions on participation in retail trade enterprises by non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals, effective March 1987. However, import- licensing restrictions were to remain in effect for non-Kuwaiti GCC nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. The Kuwa it Stock Exchange was reopened on September 28, 1992. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks on the Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved domestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries. The list- ing of Kuwaiti dinar-denominated bonds on the Exchange is also subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1992, eight Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed on the Exchange, but there were no dealings in dinar-denominated bonds in 1992. Dealings in stocks are restricted to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 KUWAIT Kuwaiti citizens, but foreigners are permitted to buy and sell bonds on the Exchange. Gold Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hall- marked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufac- tured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZSTAN1 (Position as of May 24,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan is the Som.2 The National Bank of Kyrgyzstan (NBK) publishes daily the exchange rate of the som in terras of the U.S. dollar and the Russian ruble, which it calculates from the transaction rates in the Bishkek interbank foreign currency market. On May 17,1993, the exchange rate of the som in terms of the U.S. dollar quoted by the NBK was som 4 per US$1, which was the rate at which the NBK sold dollars (at auction) on that day. In addition to the NBK, the commercial banks are authorized to con- duct foreign exchange transactions. Authorized banks are allowed to quote their own buying and selling rates. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted without any restrictions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The new central bank law, approved by Parlia- ment in December 1992, established the NBK's responsibility for managing the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves. A decree signed by the President on May 5, 1993 (becoming effective on May 15) established the fu ll convertibility of the som with no restrictions on buying, selling, or hold- ing foreign currencies. The NBK is also responsible for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks. Foreign trade is regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Material Resources, which issues import and export licenses, where required. Licenses for foreign investment and registrations of foreign investors are granted by the State Commission for Foreign Investments and Economic Aid (Goskom- invest), in coordination with the Ministry of Eco- nomics and Finance. l rThe Republic of Kyrgyzstan became a member of the IMF on May 8,1992. 2 The som was issued on May 10, 1993, and the conversion (from the Russ ian ruble to the som) was completed by May 15, 1993. The trading of.many goods is conducted by state agencies and through state procurement at negoti- ated prices. Prescription of Currency In addition to regular foreign exchange payments by the commercial banks, settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be made through a system of central bank correspondent accounts. Set- tlements with countries with which Kyrgyzstan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.3 All settlements may be made in any con- vertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are allowed to maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks and abroad. Nonresidents may hold accounts in domestic or for- eign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the operations of these accounts, including trans- fers abroad of balances held in these accounts. Imports and Exports Imports are permitted free of restrictions, except for some items, the importation of which is prohib- ited for reasons of national interest; these items include armaments, explosive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poisons, narcotics, works of art, and antiques. Imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are exempt from customs duties; certain imports from other countries are subject to customs duties ranging up to 20 percent.4 Imports of raw materials and inputs necessary for production to meet the volume of output con- tracted under state purchase agreements are guar- anteed by the Government. All exports to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. require specific licenses. A fee equiva- lent to $40 payable in convertible currency is levied on export licenses. Exports of a number of products to 3 The countries with which Kyrgyzstan has bilateral trade agreements are China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Paki- stan, Romania, Turkey, and all the states of the former U.S.S.R., except La tv ia and Estonia. 4 Customs duties are as follows: 15 percent on beer, 20 percent on vodka and spirits, and 10 percent on wine, bed linen, televi- sion sets, and vehicles. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 KYRGYZSTAN the states of the former U.S.S.R. also require licenses.5 The exportation of a number of products is prohibited for reasons of national interest (i.e., armaments, explo- sive materials, nuclear materials and equipment, poi- sons, narcotics, works of arts, and antiques). There is no requirement to repatriate foreign exchange. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are allowed to purchase any amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad or any other reason. The importation and exportation of Rus- sian ruble and other foreign bank notes are freely allowed. 5These include oil and oil products, na tu ral gas, coal, ores and concentrates, non-ferrous and rare metals, scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals, precious metals and stones, grain, cotton, wool, leather, tobacco, silk cocoons, sugar beet seeds, herbs, and certain medicines. There are no restrictions on remittances of divi- dends and profits by foreign investors. Profits earned on direct foreign investments are taxed at a rate of 15 percent (the same tax rate is applied to profits earned by domestic enterprises). Capital There are no restrictions on foreign borrowing by residents or enterprises. Legislation on foreign direct investment is being drawn up. Gold Fifty percent of the gold produced in Kyrgyzstan is required to be sold to the NBK at the production cost plus a small profit margin. The remainder is allowed to be sold at market prices, either in the domestic market or abroad, but the NBK has prior- ity in purchasing it at the market price. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic (the central bank). On December 31, 1992, the official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank for buying and selling were KN 716 and KN 718, respectively, per US$1; these rates are used for all transactions between the cen- tral bank and the commercial banks. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely deter- mined rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rate remains less than 2 percent. Foreign exchange may be sold by the bureaus for payments for authorized imports and payments for services within authorized limits. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL), which was a subsidiary of the central bank, handles most autho- rized foreign exchange transactions related to for- eign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the central bank, which also adminis- ters exchange controls. The Ministry of Commerce grants import and export authorization to state trad- ing companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign investors), cooperatives, and public enterprises. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts. Resident individuals and jurid- ical persons may open foreign exchange accounts with an authorized commercial bank. These accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from exports of goods and services; (2) transfers from abroad that do not result from exports of goods and services; (3) transfers or payments from foreign cur- rency accounts opened with commercial banks 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. within the Lao PDR; and (4) foreign bank notes and coins. These accounts, which are interest-bearing, may be debited for conversion into kip for domestic expenditure, or foreign exchange balances may be used for authorized payments and transfers. Residents are not allowed to open convertible kip accounts or to maintain accounts without the approval of the central bank. Nonresident Accounts. Nonresidents may open for- eign currency accounts and convertible kip accounts, as follows. Foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with (1) remittances from abroad; (2) transfers from other nonresident and resident foreign cur- rency accounts in the Lao PDR; and (3) foreign cur- rency brought into the country by the account holder and duly declared upon arrival. Nonresidents are not allowed to accept, for deposit to their accounts, foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods and services of residents without the approval of the cen- tral bank. These accounts, which bear interest, may be debited for (1) conversion into kip; (2) transfers into residents' and nonresidents' foreign currency accounts maintained with an authorized commercial bank; (3) payments in kip to accounts of residents or nonresidents; (4) transfers abroad; and (5) payments for business or tourist travel, and medical treatment. Nonresidents may open convertible kip accounts, which may be credited with (1) sales of foreign cur- rencies, and (2) transfers from other convertible kip accounts of holders of the same category. Nonresi- dents are not permitted to deposit kip belonging to residents to their convertible kip accounts. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments in kip, and (2) conversion into foreign currency at the prevailing buying rate of the commercial bank concerned. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but, in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deut- sche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with Bulgaria, Cambodia, China, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Thailand, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments Imports may be made by any registered export- import business. These consist of state trading com- panies, joint-venture trade companies, and private trade companies. These companies are categorized as either enterprises producing mainly for export, for import substitution only, for general multicom- modity, for export-import, or for export promotion. Imports are classified into the following nine cate- gories: food and food products; textile garments and daily supplies; office supplies, school instru- ments, sports equipment, and cultural instruments; machines and equipment for agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, and production of handicrafts; luxury goods; materials for construction and elec- trical products and instruments; vehicles and spare parts; medicine, medical equipment, and chemical products for manufacturing; and fuel. Enterprises that produce import substitutes are allowed to import products only from the last four categories. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and provincial government authori- ties, are required only for a select number of goods and are no longer linked to the ability to export. The goods requiring import licenses are rice, fuel, cement, reinforced wires, automobiles, and petro- leum products. These goods are also subject to indi- vidual enterprise quota restrictions. Imports of gold and silver are subject to authorization from the cen- tral bank. The rates of margin deposits required against let- ters of credit are determined by the BCEL on a case- by-case basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The travel allowance is subject to a limit of $2,000 a person a trip. In prac- tice, a traveler may purchase add i t ional amounts of foreign exchange from either commercial banks or foreign exchange bureaus. There are no restrictions on remittances of prof i ts earned by foreign investors. Exports and Export Proceeds Any registered export or import business is per- mitted to engage in export activities. Export licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and provincial government authorities, are required only for coffee, timber, wood products, rat- tan, and livestock. These goods are also subject to individual enterprise quota restrictions; at present, restrictive quotas are applied only to timber. The public sector has the monopoly on the exportation of timber, which was shipped by the Societe du commerce lao (SCL), provincial trading companies, and specially authorized public enterprises. The exportation of timber was banned from April 1991 to June 1992. All other goods may be freely exported by the private sector. Export shipment of gold and silver requires authorization from the cen- tral bank. Export earnings are not subject to the surrender requirement, and they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with a commercial bank (to pay for authorized imports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accruing from merchandise exports. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents are not permitted. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1988, inward foreign capital transfers, profit remit- tances, and the repatriation of foreign investment capital are not restricted. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad unless authorized by the central bank. Changes During 1992 Exports and Export Proceeds June 1. The ban on the exportation of timber was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA1 (Position as of March 32,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currencies of Latvia are the Latvian Ruble and the Lats. Effective July 20, 1992, the Latvian ruble replaced the Russian ruble as legal tender in Latvia. In March 1993, the lats began to be issued as a permanent currency at the conversion rate of LVR 200 per 1 lats. At this conversion rate, the exchange rate of the lats for the U.S. dollar was $1.3 per 1 lats. The use of convertible currencies for domestic settlements is also permitted, and some payments are still made in Russian rubles.2 The exchange rate of the Latvian ruble is deter- mined by demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Bank of Latvia's policy is to ensure orderly conditions in the exchange market and limit short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Latvian ruble against convertible curren- cies. The Bank of Latvia reviews domestic and international exchange markets on a daily basis and announces buying and selling rates for the Latvian ruble against the Estonian kroon and the currencies included in the SDR basket. The Bank of Latvia stands ready to transact with commercial banks at these rates, which are announced late in the day and take effect the following day; new rates are announced only as conditions warrant. Rates are generally set for at least one day but may be changed more frequently if necessary. The exchange rates for the Latvian ruble against con- vertible currencies other than the U.S. dollar are quoted on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A margin of less than 1 percent is applied in cross-rate quotations for cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar. Banks and other authorized exchange dealers also trade in these cur- rencies, and their buying and selling rates may deviate from time to time from the quoted rates. On Wednesday of each week, the Bank of Latvia also quotes the midpoint of the buying and selling rates of the Latvian ruble against convertible cur- rencies. These rates are used for various accounting lrThe Republic of Latvia became a member of the IMF on May 19,1992. 2 The currency conversion is expected to be completed by June 28, 1993, but the Bank of Latvia will continue to honor La tv ian rubles without a time limit. 3 Even if the buying and selling rates do not change, they are always published each Wednesday, together with the official accounting rates that will take effect the following week. purposes, including customs duties, taxation, and other valuations; they are valid from Monday through Sunday of the following week and are communicated to all commercial banks.4 The Bank of Latvia also quotes weekly the accounting rates of the Latvian ruble for the curren- cies of those states of the former U.S.S.R. that are par- ticipating in the system of correspondent accounts. Licensed foreign exchange dealers must pay a tax of 1.5 percent on purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The legal and regulatory framework governing foreign exchange transactions is in transition pend- ing the full introduction of the national currency. Parliament has ultimate authority over foreign exchange and trade matters, but authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transac- tions has been delegated to the Bank of Latvia. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the Bank of Latvia. Import and export tariffs are admin- istered by the Customs Tariffs Council, a body con- sisting of representatives of several ministries, including the Ministries of Trade, Economic Reforms, and Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Latvia maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.5 Latvia has concluded trade agreements with Norway and Sweden that provide for trade in industrial goods but specifically exclude agricul- tural products. 4 The accounting rates are published in all major newspapers and through other media. 5At the end of 1992, Latvia maintained bilateral payments agreements with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakh- stan, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. At the end of 1992, Latvia also maintained Intergovernmental Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreements providing for most-favored-nation sta- tus with Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Cuba, Georgia, Hungary, Iceland, Moldova, Poland, the Russian Federation, Turkmeni- stan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Similar agreements were signed in 1992 with the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 LATVIA Resident and Nonresident Accounts With the Bank of Latvia's permission, resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in cash or in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Nonresident natural persons are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Nonresident enter- prises are not allowed to maintain accounts in Latvia. Imports and Exports There are virtually no licensing requirements for imports. Imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are subject to customs duties, as follows: fuel, grains, cooking oil, and a few other basic consumer goods are exempt; fruits, coffee, tea, sugar, a few other food items, and agricultural machinery, 7.5 percent; and all other goods (except automobiles, alcoholic beverages, and cigarettes), 15 percent. The tariff rates on imports from other countries are as follows: alcoholic bever- ages, 10 percent to 30 percent, depending on the alco- hol content; automobiles, LVR 5,000 for a vehicle less than two years old and LVR 10,000 for a vehicle more than two years old; cigarettes, 15 percent; fruits, cof- fee, tea, and sugar, 7.5 percent; food products compet- ing with domestic products, 15 percent; and all other products, 15 percent (20 percent if imported from countries with which Latvia does not maintain trade agreements). Raw materials used in production are exempt from duties, but this exemption applies only to materials and parts actually contained in goods sold and not to spare parts for the equipment used to produce such goods. Imports used as inputs in the production of exports, such as fabric for cloth- ing, are exempt from import duties. Specific import duties are levied on a large number of agricultural products, alcoholic beverages, cosmetic products, grains, flour, and bread. Food products valued at less than LVR 22,500 that are imported across the border by individuals are exempt from customs duties, as are imports of up to one liter of alcoholic beverages brought into the country in the same way. Individuals arriving in Latvia may bring in, free of duty, goods and articles other than food- s tuffs and alcoholic beverages as long as the total value does not exceed 15 times the minimum wage. The importation of certain goods, such as firearms, is prohibited. There are no export quotas or licensing require- ments. Exports of certain products are subject to a tax ranging up to 100 percent. For some goods, these duties are waived or reduced if export pro- ceeds are to be received in convertible currency; higher duties apply to exports to the states of the former U.S.S.R. Export proceeds are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control or restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles. Capital At present, there are no exchange control regula- tions governing capital transactions. Gold At present, there are no regulations governing international trade in gold. A license is required to deal in gold in the domestic market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of December 31, 2992) •Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities may announce buying or sell- ing rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. On December 31, 1992, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 1,840 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The duties and taxes on imported goods and services invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies are calculated at a conversion rate of LL800 per US$1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any cur- rency but are prohibited from engaging in forward transactions exceeding LL 500,000 unless the trans- actions are related to foreign trade. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammu- nition, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports prohibited year-round include citrus fruits, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and pea- nuts; imports prohibited during a specified period of the year include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, insulated electric and telephone wires, and copper cables. All other commodities may be imported without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers pos- sess a valid import license, if required, before issu- ing letters of credit. Importers must place with their banks a prior deposit in a local currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import let- ters, of credit; the banks are not required to deposit such amounts with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is levied on all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 per LL 1,000 of the value of the goods. The tar- iff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem du ty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain imports from member countries of the European Community (EC) and Arab countries, which are accorded a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The surcharge on motor vehi- cles is levied at the following rates: 35 percent on vehicles valued at LL 10 million or less, and 60 percent on vehicles valued at more than LL 10 million. The rate of surcharge on watches and imi- tation jewelry is 7 percent. The following rates of surcharge apply to alcoholic beverages: beer, LL 140 per 100 liters; champagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whisky, 30 percent of the value. An additional con- struction tax of 11 percent, a municipality tax, and an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 a liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whisky. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammunition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat derivatives to any country and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 Proceeds from Invisibles LEBANON Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are prohibited from extending to nonresidents loans in Lebanese pounds and loans secured by guarantees from non- resident banks unless the transactions are for com- mercial or investment purposes in Lebanon. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits or opening accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve require- ment; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that give rise directly to for- eign currency deposits, and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain long or short net foreign currency posi- tions up to 15 percent of the amount of their capital. However, banks may hold long net foreign cur- rency positions equal to the amount of increases in capital effected after June 1,1985 and to the general reserves established after the end of 1985. The amounts of investments in foreign currencies in nonresident banks and financial institutions are not included in net foreign currency positions. Invest- ments in nonresident banks and other foreign insti- tutions are exempt from the net foreign currency positions. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve require- ments and fees for deposit insurance on nonresi- dents' foreign currency deposits. Also, nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earn- ings from foreign currency deposits. Under the National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensation is paid on losses that are more than 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The impor- tation, exportation, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certificate, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer, that indicates the gold content and weight. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement May 1. The conversion rate of LL 800 per US$1 was applied to the calculation of duties and taxes on all imported goods and services. Imports and Import Payments December 17. The restriction on imports of wheat was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Mal- oti), which is pegged to the South African rand at Ml p e r R l. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) Agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 3.0555 and M 3.0565, respectively, per US$1. Authorized deal- ers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the financial rand system, local sales pro- ceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be trans- ferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely determined exchange rate and may be used to pur- chase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain prop- erties. There are no forward cover arrangements for exchange transactions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these four countries became effective on April 1, 1986 (and was amended in 1989). Payments within the CMA are unrestricted and unrecorded except for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external currency transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of cur- rent payments up to established limits. Lesotho's trade-licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions accepting deposits and insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of the Southern African Customs Union with Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland, and imports originating in any country of the Customs Union are unrestricted. Imports from countries outside the Customs Union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. A wide range of imports from outside the Customs Union are sub- ject to surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the Cus- toms Union. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve some types of current payments up to established limits. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring coun- tries outside the CMA area —Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 6,000 for an adult and M 3,000 for a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries out- side the CMA region is M 19,000 and M 9,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 12,000 a person at rates not exceed- ing M 900 a day; the corresponding limits for busi- ness travel to other countries are M 28,000 and 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 LESOTHO M 1,800, respectively. Larger allowances may be obtained for travel for business and medical treat- ment. Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 200,000 a family or up to M 100,000 a person. The maxi- mum amount of earnings on blocked assets that emigrants are allowed to transfer through normal banking channels is M 300,000 a year. Any excess may be transferred only through the financial rand system. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly doc- umented to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may either borrow foreign currency or regis- ter shares in the name of a nonresident or act as a nominee for a nonresident without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manufacturers approved by the Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act of 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the Central Bank. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and prof- its from investments held in Lesotho is not restricted, provided these funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 75,000, provided that the automobile was pur- chased at least one year before emigration. The limit on settling-in allowances that immi- grants are permitted to transfer through the finan- cial rand mechanism is M 500,000 for a family and M 250,000 for an unmarried person, of which M 20,000 may be in cash; the remainder may be used to acquire residential properties and a motor vehicle. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coins that are legal tender. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 per US$1. There is no official intervention currency. The cur- rency of the United States is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coins and the $5 note.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Export- and import-licensing regulations are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. The Liberian National Petroleum Company (LNPC) no longer has the exclusive right to import petroleum products; all eligible importers that obtain an Import Declaration Form from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import them. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to pri- vate distributors by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. A surtax of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be shipped to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Prescription of Currency Exports and Export Proceeds Some exporters must pay withholding taxes and corporate income taxes in U.S. dollars. Hotels are required to receive payments from foreign guests in foreign exchange. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. These items include safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics ^.S. dollar notes, which used to form the major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist. The U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transactions, and commercial banks charge abnormally high commissions for their sales of off- shore funds. Foreign exchange dealers other than banks are per- mitted to buy and sell currencies other than the U.S. dollar at market-determined exchange rates. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural prod- ucts other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explo- sives. Licenses are generally issued freely and serve mainly to enforce the 25 percent surrender of export proceeds and taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin. In August 1988, a regulation requiring that wood prod- ucts for exportation have a local processing content of at least 5 percent was enacted. The required local content was raised to 10 percent in 1990. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export pro- ceeds to the National Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks; this requirement is not strictly enforced. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this for- eign exchange. That portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not purchased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 Capital LIBERIA No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Under the Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five- year, 90 percent duty exemption on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on dis- tributable profits, and a protective tariff on compet- ing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for two more years in certain circum- stances. Most mining, logging, and rubber enter- prises, however, operate under special redundant agreements that provide for tax concessions for a period ranging up to 70 years. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Libya) is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 per SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 16 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 per SDR 2.41382. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 16 currencies are based on their exchange rates against the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1992 was LD 0.30129 per US$1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in for- eign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into for- ward commitments in foreign currencies. Since 1985, fees have been levied on outward foreign exchange transfers for the purpose of financing the Great Man-Made River Project. These fees have resulted in a deviation of more than 2 percent between the official exchange rate and the effective rate applied to these transfers. There are no other taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the Secretariat of Plan- ning, Trade, and Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. A nonresident (as defined by the Central Bank) who is gainfully employed in the country is permit- ted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Such nonresi- dents may credit their legitimate earnings to their nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank after submission of the prescribed evi- dence, but, in general, remittance is permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to LD 500 a year, to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees and taxes; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remit- tances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qual- ify, upon payment of due taxes, for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent resi- dence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; bal- ances credited before March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports included in the annual com- modity budget are under taken exclusively by state-owned enterprises without license. Import- ers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the annual commodity budget are subject to licensing. Resident firms 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA under tak ing development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual commodity budget and not available locally, and foreign exchange to pay for these imports is pro- vided by the Government; similar imports by non- residents, however, must be financed with foreign exchange resources from abroad. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods. Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation of. gold and precious metals. Under Decision No. 248 of January 1989, import trade by private companies and partnerships has been permitted. With the exception of strategic goods3 retained by public cor- porations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities within the provi- sions of the annual commodity budget. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits require central bank approval. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks following central bank approval, provided that a firm contract exists and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Planning, Trade, and Finance and, if imports are to be financed under letters of credit, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, an authorized bank may not open a letter of credit without an advance import deposit equal to at least 20 percent of the value of the import. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and cus- toms surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 percent of the applicable customs duty. All products origi- nating in Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, provided that their domestic value added exceeds 43 percent. Private individuals are allowed to import goods on the commodity budget list up to a maximum value of LD 3,000 from Arab countries. 2These include mineral water, f ru it juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxu ry cars, and fu rs. 3 These are 11 essential food items, medicine, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits spec- ified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of their net sal- aries if their contracts specify that, in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations, the employer will provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas; and (2) nonresidents employed by the Libyan private sector are subject to the following limits: (a) agricultural and unskilled workers may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries up to a maxi- mum of LD 40 a month, and (b) others may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries without monthly limit. In general, nonresidents may not transfer income derived from overtime work. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign cur- rency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren between the ages of 10 and 18) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Additional amounts may be granted in special cir- cumstances. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had previously brought in and declared to cus- toms. Travelers leaving Libya may not take out Lib- yan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of non- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 301 monetary gold (other than for processing abroad) and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re- exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. Exports of domestically produced vegetable oils are permitted. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Export Promotion Council estab- lished under Decision No. 523 of September 1988 helps exporters to enter foreign markets by provid- ing information on demand conditions abroad and on potential exports. Also, as an incentive to export, exporters are allowed to retain up to 40 percent of foreign exchange earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export pro- duction. Exporters do not need an export license for these exports but must register with the council and supply, on a regular basis, the relevant documenta- tion on their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlim- ited amounts, which they must declare to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of $50 for each day spent in the country Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nation- als. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described in the section on Payments for Invisibles. Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the sur- plus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Only Libyans may own real estate in Libya. Non- resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Resi- dents must obtain the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for Foreign Affairs and Interna- tional Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The invest- ment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20,1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement The margins within which the dinar may fluctu- ate around its central rate against the SDR were widened on three occasions, to 11 percent from 7.5 percent in March, to 13.5 percent in July, and to 16 percent in August. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Until the end of September 1992, both the Russian ruble and the general-purpose coupon (Talonas; plu- ral Talonai), which was introduced on May 1, 1992, were legal tender. On October 1, 1992, the Russian ruble was declared a foreign currency, and the talo- nas became the sole legal tender, pending the intro- duction of the litas, the national currency. The exchange rate of the talonas for the U.S. dol- lar is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. Authorized banks quote exchange rates for other convertible curren- cies on the basis of their cross-rate relationships for the currencies concerned on the New York market.2 Authorized banks also quote buying and selling rates for the Russian ruble. However, these rates are not determined solely on the basis of U.S. dollar quotations obtained from the Moscow Interbank Market. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar is calculated daily by the Bank of Lithuania (the central bank) on the basis of average buying and selling rates quoted by authorized banks; on December 31, 1992, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was talonai 367.0 per US$1. The Bank of Lithuania also calculates an accounting rate, which is used to value balance sheet items. Accounting rates for convertible cur- rencies and for the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. are calculated every Tuesday and at the end of each month.3 In addition to the foreign exchange transactions effected through authorized banks, the central bank organizes foreign exchange auctions every two weeks. All resident individuals and enterprises are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at these auctions, while nonresidents are allowed only to sell foreign exchange. Exchange rates at the auc- tions are determined freely by demand and supply lpThe Republic of Lithuania became a member of the IMF on April 29,1992. 2 Authorized banks provide exchange rate quotations for Aus- tralian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The accounting rates for the convertible currencies are identi- cal to the middle rates on Tuesdays and at the end of each month, whereas the accounting rates for the currencies of the states of the former U.S.S.R. are calculated by the Bank of L i thua- nia by using the cross rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the respective central banks. conditions, and these rates may d iffer from exchange rates quoted by authorized banks. The minimum amount of foreign exchange allowed to be auctioned is the equivalent of $1,000. At the end of 1992, the average rate for the U.S. dollar at the auction was talonai 424 per US$1. Individuals and enterprises must pay a participation fee of talonai 100 and talonai 500, respectively, and a commission of 0.5 percent is imposed on each transaction. Limits are placed on the net open positions of authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The legal and regulatory framework governing foreign exchange transactions is in transition, pend- ing, in part, the planned introduction of the litas and implementation of the currency law. Parlia- ment has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a bank- ing law delegating to the Bank of Lithuania the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the Bank of Lithuania. To date, 18 banks have been authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithua- nia, and they are divided into four categories, depending on the types of transactions they are permitted to conduct. The simplest type of license limits the operations to buying and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). At present, eight banks have been granted a general license that allows them to offer a fu ll range of banking ser- vices (including issuing letters of credit) in foreign exchange operations, and they are permitted to open correspondent accounts with banks abroad. Import and export controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Material Resources. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Lithuania notified the IMF on April 16, 1993 that in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 303 tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Lithuania maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agree- ments.4 Settlements with countries with which Lithuania does not maintain bilateral payments agreements may be made in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks, and these accounts may be credited and debited without restriction. Nonresident individuals and representa- tive offices of foreign enterprises and diplomatic missions may open foreign exchange accounts at the authorized banks, and these accounts may be cred- ited and debited without restriction. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons. Imports subject to bilat- eral trade agreements are allocated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. A tax at the un i fo rm ra te of 0.01 percent is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole purpose of collecting statistical in fo rma t ion on trade. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports are not required to be repatriated to Lithuania. Export quotas and licens- ing requirements are applied to products covered 4At the end of December 1992, Lithuania maintained bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the (former) Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. Most of these agreements, however, have become de facto inoperative. At the end of 1992, L i thuan ia main- tained bilateral trade agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the (former) Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. Most of these agreements, how- ever, have become de fac to inoperative. These agreements pro- vided for settlements in convertible currencies. by bilateral trade agreements and to timber and cer- tain energy products. Excise duties are levied on exports of certain raw materials and products to the states of the former U.S.S.R.; these duties range from 20 percent to 61 percent for leather, timber, and energy products, and amount to 92 percent for alcoholic beverages. An excise du ty of 10 percent is applied temporarily to products exported to other countries unless international agreements specify differently. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to any control or restriction. Capital Authorized banks may borrow abroad or extend loans in foreign currencies to residents and nonresi- dents without restriction. Resident firms may bor- row foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad. Foreign direct investment is regulated by the Law of Foreign Investments promulgated in December 1990 and amended in February and June 1992. The law permits the state to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the com- pany must remain involved in the same type of business for at least one year under the new owner- ship. While firms with 100 percent foreign capital ownership are allowed to operate in Lithuania, the Government reserves the right to establish limits on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. For- eign investors are prohibited from operating in the defense industry, public utilities, and energy explo- ration. In joint ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is required to hold the majority of the shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insurance companies even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. The ownership of land in Lithuania is restricted, but lease contracts with limits to 2 hectares of land in Vilnius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permit- ted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. The Law of Foreign Investments also guarantees the free repatriation of all after-tax profits as well as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 LITHUANIA the invested capital, with no limitation on timing or amount. It also provides for important tax incentives. If the foreign investment is made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70 percent, that is, to 8.7 percent from 29 percent, for five years. For another three years, the profit tax is reduced by 50 percent. If the investment is made between January 1994 and December 1995, profits will be taxed by a rate reduced by 50 percent for six years. These reductions are pro- portional to the foreign capital invested only and not available for the entire capital investment in a project. Reinvested profits are tax exempt. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, or sell gold in any form in Lithuania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly, with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement of cur- rencies in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagas- car (CBM) quotes the Malagasy f ranc exchange rates, which are adjusted on a daily basis against ten currencies.1 The authorized banks are not per- mitted to maintain an exchange position in any for- eign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1992, the mid- point rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the CBM was FMG 1,910.17 per US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the General Directorate of the Trea- sury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents; the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar; all outward investments; and inward direct investment. Some approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the extensive use of the Liberalized Imports System (SILI) for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all eco- nomic agents are allowed to import and receive the total amount of foreign exchange requested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports that currently includes 59 customs nomenclatures is subject to administrative control, primarily for rea- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. sons of security and health. Since September 1,1988, private operators and state trading companies have been authorized to export all products, with the exception of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Prescription of Currency ^Payments and receipts must be effected through authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the CBM in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the foreign account in Malagasy francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a foreign account, they must be credited to a special blocked account, the balance of which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Transactions between enterprises in the free trade zone and resi- dents are conducted through the enterprises' for- eign accounts in Malagasy francs. These enterprises are also permitted to maintain foreign exchange accounts with local banks, which are required to transfer to the CBM foreign exchange credited by the enterprises to their foreign accounts. Imports and Import Payments Under the SILI, which was introduced on Febru- ary 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1, 1988, all economic agents listed in the Trade Regis- ter who are in good standing legally and with the tax administration may import and receivethe total amount of foreign currency requested at the pre- vailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not required for imports financed with foreign exchange that has been surrendered to the CBM, and all administrative formalities are handled by the banks through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 MADAGASCAR opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to- finance imports. The temporary requirement under the SILI that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abolished on May 10, 1988, and each commer- cial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision, on the basis of its finan- cial evaluation of importers. In accordance with the provisions of Decree No. 92.424 (April 3, 1992) on the Regulations of Merchandise Imports and Exports, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except on 61 items in the customs nomenclature, mainly for reasons of health and security. On January 1, 1988, the authorities introduced the first stage of a comprehensive tariff reform that replaced quantitative import restrictions with a simplified system of 16 rates (multiples of 5), with the minimum rate set at 5 percent and the maxi- mum at 70 percent. A temporary surcharge of 30 percent on certain products was aimed at facili- tating the transition. All imports except those for which exemptions were granted in accordance with international treaties were made subject to a mini- mum rate of 5 percent on a collection basis. In the second stage of the reform, which took effect on January 1,1989, the tar iffs tended to be harmonized at the four-digit level; the minimum tar iff rate was raised to 10 percent, except on certain products (fer- tilizers, pesticides, pharmaceutical products and inputs, and optical glass). In addition, the Govern- ment reduced certain tariffs and the temporary sur- charge, which was lowered from 30 percent to 10 percent and suspended entirely for meats and edible organs. On January 1, 1990, the 10 percent temporary surcharge was eliminated, and the maxi- mum tariff rate of 70 percent was applied to prod- ucts previously subject to the surcharge. In 1991, the maximum tariff rate was reduced to 60 percent for all categories of merchandise. The Finance Law of 1991 lowered the maximum tariff rate even further, to 50 percent, for a large number of products. The third stage of the reform, completed in 1992, con- cerned mainly the classification of imported goods into five categories, which are taxed at rates of 10 percent to 50 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance, which has delegated approval authority to the General Direc- torate of the Treasury and to authorized intermedi- aries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Payments for invisi- bles related to authorized imports are not restricted, except for agency fees (commissions de representa- tions), whose settlement is subject to the submission of a contract previously approved by the Minister of Finance (Treasury General Directorate). Residents traveling as tourists may purchase for- eign exchange up to an annual limit equivalent to FMG 10,000 a person for every two-year period, irre- spective of the number of trips taken (FMG 5,000 for children under 15 years). Any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar must be sur- rendered. The foreign exchange allowance for busi- ness travel is the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person, irrespective of the number of trips made. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist travel. Applications for additional foreign exchange must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and may be approved for bona fide business trips and medical treatment abroad, but not for tour- ism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Gen- eral Directorate of the Treasury Limits are set for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. The transfer of divi- dends and profits to nonresident shareholders who are natural or juridical persons has been fu l ly liber- alized under the terms of the Investment Code and the Industrial Free Trade Zone. However, under the common law (droit commun), dividends payable to these stockholders are immediately transferable at 100 percent (in the case of industrial enterprises) and at 75 percent (for commercial enterprises). For- eigners working in Madagascar may transfer sav- ings from wages and salaries upon presentation of the work contract and employment permit, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 35 percent of net salary for bachelors and per- sons whose families reside in Madagascar; up to 60 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar; and 100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar. In all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed the equiva- lent of FMG 6,000 a person a month or its equiva- lent. This ceiling does not apply to expatriates working in enterprises operating under the Invest- ment Code (Code d'investissement). Remittances for medical treatment abroad are permitted when properly documented. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 25,000 in Mala- gasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 307 out any remaining foreign bank notes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared on entry. travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency as means of payment and up to FMG 25,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Capital All exporters listed in the Trade Register who are in good standing and have no tax obligations in arrears can freely export their products (except vanilla) without restriction at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Further- more, the Government's quality control or certifica- tion requirement for exportable goods has been abolished for a number of products and is now lim- ited to only four: vanilla, coffee, seafood, and meat. Certificates of quality on exports of cloves have also been abolished. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control itself is limited to a quality or sanitary inspec- tion certificate from the competent government agency or, at the option of the exporter, an interna- tionally recognized specialized private company. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For sea- food and meat, the certificate of origin and quality standard must be included in the documents for embarkation in the absence of an arrangement directly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in conformity with international agreements. Since the 1990/91 crop year, all coffee producers have been permitted to negotiate and execute export contracts freely. The list of exports prohib- ited or subject to prior approval, including mineral products, flora, and fauna, was reduced by Decree No. 92.424 (April 3,1992). Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment unless an exemp- tion is granted by the Ministry of Finance (General Directorate of the Treasury). Forty percent of export proceeds must be surrendered immediately to the CBM and the remaining balances utilized within 72 hours from the time of repatriation or transferred to the CBM. Export proceeds of enterprises operat- ing in the free trade zone must be repatriated within at least 190 days of the date of shipment. Some large state enterprises are granted exceptions from the surrender requirements on a case-by-case basis and are permitted to retain all their earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income or pro- ceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and non- residents are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of for- eign companies in Madagascar, as well as corre- sponding transfers, require prior approval from the Minister of Finance (the General Directorate of the Treasury). Foreign direct investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authori- zation from the Ministry of Finance. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days of each transaction. Partici- pation that does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company is not considered direct investment. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Madagascar requires prior authori- zation from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertis- ing or offering for sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free trade zone are permit- ted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 MADAGASCAR restricted. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Minister of Finance. In accordance with the Investment Code of December 29, 1989 (Law No. 89026), enterprises benefiting from preferential treatment under the code are granted an exemption from import taxes exceeding 10 percent on materials used in the pro- duction process. Enterprises operating in the indus- trial free trade zone established on December 29, 1989 may import these materials free of du ty and tax. Gold The purchase of gold within the country from holders of valid gold-mining titles or from autho- rized holders of gold-washing rights is carried out by approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account. The price of gold may be set freely by buyers and sellers. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce af ter review by the Director- ate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the CBM, and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travel- ers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 karats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person and 50 grams or 250 karats of numismatic items a per- son. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt f rom- license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold-mining title or a gold-wash- ing permit or rights are free to sell the gold recov- ered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities, represented by the CBM or its agents, may exercise their right of pre-emption with regard to the purchase of gold produced in the country. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control April 3. Decree No. 92.424 on the Regulation of Merchandise Imports and Exports was promulgated. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The third and final stage of the tariff reform simplifying the tariff scheme was completed. Exports and Export Proceeds October 1. A number of large enterprises were permitted to retain all their foreign exchange receipts; such permission is granted on a case-by- case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geographical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign exchange transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) is determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On December 31,1992, the RBM's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 4.3736 and MK 4.4176, respectively, per US$1. It also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dol- lar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimba- bwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the IMF. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade and Industry (MTI), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any con- vertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Ma lawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior authorization of the exchange control authorities. Normally, authorization is given for the investment of balances of blocked accounts in an approved manner. On application to the exchange control authorities, account holders may normally transfer the interest on blocked account balances to their country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general license system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTI. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade may be imported under an open general license. Specific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application and are normally valid for six months. To obtain foreign exchange for imports, private sector importers must file with a commercial bank an application for an import order, including, where necessary, a specific import license. Com- mercial banks are authorized to approve, without reference to the RBM, virtually all applications to import goods with the exception of those on the negative list.3 For goods on the negative list, import order applications filed with commercial banks 2 Certain ag r icu l tu ral and food products, new (military-type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, flick knives, explo- sives, a rmamen ts /ammun i t ion, game traps, mist nets, wild ani- mals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3These include alcoholic beverages, precious stones, electrical goods, and noncommercial passenger vehicles. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 310 MALAWI must be approved by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the RBM. When imports arrive in the country and payments are due, the importer must submit applications for foreign currency payments. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant importation and cus- toms documents. Commercial banks may require counterpart deposits depending on means of pay- ment (e.g., letters of credit). This is a matter of bank- ing practice and is not required by official regulations; approval of the RBM is required in the case of foreign exchange applications for payment of restricted imports. Prepayment for imports is allowed with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Import- ers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 percent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value, including cus- toms tariffs. The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 percent to 100 percent for luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without ref- erence to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, for example, private travel, education, and medical treatment. The basic exchange allowances for private travel are MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a cal- endar year; MK200 a year for children up to 10 years of age; and MK 300 a year for children between the ages of 10 years and 18 years. Annual travel allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for an allowance during the preceding three years. Allowances are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 200 a day, with a maximum for any one business trip of MK 2,000 a month, up to a max- imum of four trips a person a year. Travelers may take out, in addition to their basic travel allowance, up to MK 200 in Malawi currency and £30 or $50 in 4 The su r tax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced m a n u f a c t u r ed goods. bank notes, or the equivalent of £30 or $50 in any other convertible foreign currency notes, in addi- tion to their basic travel allowance. 'Foreign exchange for payments for most other invisibles (or for amounts exceeding standard basic allowances such as those mentioned above) requires the prior approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the RBM. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two-thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence or any country of their choice. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be surrendered no later than five working days after payment has been made to the exporter's account in a foreign bank. Minor specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.6 Under a du ty drawback scheme, customs tar iffs paid on imports of certain inputs used by manufactured exports are rebated. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that travelers may import, but they may not import more than MK 200 in Malawi currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are con- trolled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are per- mitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original invest- ment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned 5 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agr icu l tural and an imal products. 6 The cess on tobacco is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 311 companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign securi- ties without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capi- tal abroad, and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Departing persons over 50 years of age, whether single or married, are allowed to exchange the equivalent of up to MK 15,000. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar- ture, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried per- sons under the age of 50 years are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. The balance of the emi- grant's funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of his departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emigration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. However, at the discretion of the Exchange Control, emigrant allowances in excess of the stipulated amount can be taken out. Gold any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consulta- tion with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles May 1. The maximum amount of foreign exchange authorized dealers were permitted to pro- vide for business travel was increased to MK 200 a day, with a maximum of one trip a month of MK 2,000 and a maximum of four trips a year. June 1. The documentary requirements for freight payments were amended. All applications for for- eign exchange for freight payments must indicate the exchange control reference for permission to import the goods in question. Exports and Export Proceeds April 4. Restrictions on borrowings in the domestic market by nonresident-controlled firms with regis- tered investments in Malawi were lifted. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in Capital April 1. Investments by nonresident-controlled firms in the areas of technical and specialized ser- vices (e.g., architecture, quantity surveying, con- sulting and civil engineering, and auditing and accounting) were restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. Its exter- nal value is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes only to main- tain orderly market conditions and to avoid exces- sive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit against a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malay- sia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. Rates for all other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 31, 1992, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was RM 2.6065 per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than those of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), to all customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than those of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro) and are free to quote the rates. Forward exchange contracts may be in respect of both commercial and financial transactions. For- ward cover for the commercial banks is usually pro- vided for up to six months at market rates for both purchases and sales. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11,1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the author- ity for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Depart- ment of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The day- to-day administration of import licensing through- out Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authori- ties, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. In accordance -with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Malaysia notified the Fund on June 23, 1993 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro) may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than those of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro). Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) must be obtained according to the pay- ment schedule specified in the commercial contract but within six months of the date of exportation. Payments may be made in any foreign currency except those of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or in ringgit from an external account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Ringgit accounts of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as external accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely per- mitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above RM 10,000. Pro- ceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be transferred to any other resident or nonresident account or converted into any currency except those of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Accounts of residents of these three countries are designated as Israeli accounts, South African accounts, and Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Ser- bia and Montenegro) accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Payments for Invisibles MALAYSIA 313 Tariffs and import controls for the various parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly unified. Import licenses are required for certain goods as specified in Cus- toms (Prohibition of Imports) Order No. 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when required. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to a quota and require an import license that details the quan- titative restrictions. The movement of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and o f fal of any animal or any portion of an animal from all countries require an import license. Imports of primates require an import license, subject to approval from the Depart- ment of Wildlife and National Parks. Payments for permitted imports valued at up to RM 10,000 from any country other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction a f ter exchange control requirements are met. Payments in excess of RM 10,000 require completion of forms and approval from any authorized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufac- turing sector are eligible for preferential du ty treat- ment as follows: (1) for the production of goods for the domestic market, raw materials that are not manufactured locally are subject to a reduced rate of customs du ty of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market may be fur ther exempted from this duty if they comply with specific requirements regarding equity participation, management, and employment structure; (3) all raw materials for the production of taxable goods may be acquired free, subject to conditions as specified in the Sales Tax Act of 1972; (4) for companies that manufacture products for the export market, fu ll exemption from customs duty is granted when local raw materials are not available or are not competitive in price or quality; (5) all customs duties and sales taxes on imported machinery and equipment that are unavailable locally and are directly used in the manufacturing process can be considered for an exemption; and (6) manufacturers can claim cus- toms duties and sales tax drawbacks on imported raw materials or components that are incorporated into finished products and exported within 12 months of the date of import. Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) may be made without restriction. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, royalties, and profits on all bona f ide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of RM 10,000. There is no restriction on the exporta- tion of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Exports of logs from Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah are restricted. The customs areas and export control systems among the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms must be com- pleted for exports valued at more than RM 20,000 f.o.b. per shipment (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than RM 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the payment sched- ule specified in the commercial contract but no longer than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Payments may be made in any foreign currency except the currencies of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) or in ringgit from an external account. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certifi- cate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Cus- toms (Prohibition of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The primary incentives include abatement of statutory income for manu- factured exports, an export allowance for manufac- tured and agricultural products, double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MALAYSIA exports are subject to exchange control. No limita- tion is imposed on the importation of currency notes by travelers. Capital The following inward investments, covered by the guidelines issued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers), require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) pro- posed acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will result in ownership or control passing to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30 percent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian com- pany or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or take- over of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or inter- ests exceeding RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. How- ever, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following conditions: (l)the total of the foreign entity's new investment exceeds RM 5 million; (2) the total of the foreign enti- ty's new investment exceeds 15 percent of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15 percent in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new invest- ment by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign entities amounts to 30 percent or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company increases to more than RM 5 million on incorporation, the holding of foreign entities constitutes more than 15 percent of the voting power, or the joint holding of several foreign entities constitutes 30 percent or more of the voting power of the company concerned. Foreign investors are permitted to hold equity up to 100 percent if they export 80 percent or more of their production. For projects that export more than 50 percent but less than 80 percent of their produc- tion, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is permitted only if the foreign investors contribute RM 50 million or more in fixed assets (excluding land) or implement projects that have at least 50 percent local value added, and if the firm's prod- ucts do not compete with products currently being manufactured locally for the domestic market. Export sales are defined as sales to free zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses. These equity guidelines do not apply to new projects in certain sectors, including the metal stamping industry, paper and plastic packaging products, plastic com- ponents for the electrical and electronic industry, plastic compounds and masterbatch, electroplating, and heat treatment activities. However, if new projects in these sectors export all their production directly outside the country, foreign equity partici- pation of 100 percent is allowed. For projects that involve extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permitted. To determine the percentage for these projects, various criteria (e.g., level of investment, technology, and risk involved; availability of Malaysian expertise in the area of exploration, mining, and processing of the minerals concerned; degree of integration and level of value added involved) are taken into con- sideration. For new hotel and tourist projects, for- eign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date the operation begins, after which such ownership must be reduced to 51 percent. Permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is not required for direct and portfolio investments by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), provided no domestic credit is involved. If investors have any domestic credit, they must obtain prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange for their investment. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the economy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Commercial banks are permitted to have a short or a long open foreign exchange position, ranging from RM 10 million to RM 150 million, based on the limit approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above RM 10,000. Nonresi- dent-controlled companies in Malaysia are permitted to borrow up to RM 10 million without exchange con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 315 trol approval, provided that total credit facilities obtained by the borrower in Malaysia do not exceed RM 10 million and that the borrower's corporate group obtains at least 60 percent of its total domestic credit facilities, including trade-related facilities, from commercial banks and other financial institutions incorporated in Malaysia. All applications for credit facilities by nonresidents and nonresident-controlled companies to finance the acquisition of immovable property in Malaysia require the approval of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange. As a matter of policy, applications from nonresidents and nonresident-con- trolled companies to obtain any domestic financing solely for property acquisition and development pur- poses are not approved by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. However, applications from nonresident- controlled companies for domestic financing to acquire or develop immovable property for produc- tive purposes, such as manufacturing or for promot- ing tourism in Malaysia, are treated flexibly Borrowing in foreign currencies from nonresidents is freely permitted for loans of RM 1 million or less, provided that the total outstanding amount owed by the borrower to nonresidents, including undrawn facilities, does not exceed the equivalent of RM 1 million; for amounts exceeding this limit, per- mission must be obtained from the Controller of For- eign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan pro- ceeds will be used. However, loans in foreign curren- cies in excess of the equivalent of RM 200,000 and up to the equivalent of RM 1 million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Foreign borrow- ing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, which is not usually granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by commer- cial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided that payments are made in accordance with the approved terms and conditions of the loans. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia may lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Residents are allowed to borrow in foreign currency from the commercial and merchant banks in Malaysia only up to RM 1 million or its equivalent to meet their financial requirements; the permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is required for such borrowing in foreign currency exceeding RM 1 million. Approval is readily granted if the loan is to be used for productive investment within the country and the resident borrower is judged to be able to generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the loan. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempt from the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the exportation of Malaysian goods and pro- ceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies out- side Malaysia, provided that monthly returns are submitted to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. In addition, companies located in free trade zones or those licensed as manufacturing warehouses may, with prior permission from the Controller of For- eign Exchange, offset their export proceeds through intercompany accounts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the sup- ply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are freely permitted to deal (purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in any state or form with any person except resi- dents of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Changes During 1992 Capital April 20. Total borrowing by residents in foreign currency from domestic commercial banks and merchant banks to finance imports of goods and services was restricted to the equivalent of RM 1 million (previously there were no limits). Total borrowing by residents in foreign currency from domestic sources to pay interest or repay prin- cipal on loans in foreign currency obtained previ- ously from a licensed bank also became subject to these limits (previously there were no limits). July 9. Borrowing under the Export Credit Refi- nance Facilities (both pre- and postshipment financ- ing) by nonresident-controlled companies would be considered domestic borrowing. October 24. Offshore guarantees obtained by resi- dents to secure domestic borrowing, except off- shore guarantees (whether denominated in ringgit or foreign currency) without recourse to Malaysian residents and obtained from the licensed offshore banks in Labuan to secure domestic borrowing, would be deemed as foreign borrowing. In cases where an offshore guarantee is denominated in ringgit, it would be subject to the condition that, in the event the guarantee is called on, the licensed offshore banks in Labuan must make payments in foreign currency (except the currencies of Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and Montenegro)), not in ringgit. November 1. The guidelines on foreign equity capital ownership were liberalized. Companies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 316 MALAYSIA exporting at least 80 percent of their production were no longer subject to any equity requirements, whereas companies exporting between 50 percent and 79 percent of their production were permitted to hold 100 percent equity, provided that they have invested $50 million or more in fixed assets or completed projects with at least 50 percent local value added and that the company's products do not compete with those produced by domestic firms. These guidelines would not apply to sectors in which limits on foreign equity participation have been established. December 14. Residents and the offshore compa- nies in Labuan were prohibited from transacting with the residents or dealing in the currency of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) without specific prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1,1987, the Maldives Monetary Author- ity (MMA) has followed a floating exchange rate pol- icy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply conditions in the market, although the MMA may intervene in the mar- ket when deemed appropriate. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992 was Rf 10.53 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency All tourism bills must be settled in foreign cur- rency. There are no restrictions on maintaining bal- ances in foreign currency Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. rates on daily necessities and essentials range from 5 percent to 20 percent; on items essential for the development of domestic industries, from 10 percent to 25 percent; on items that will enhance the economic welfare of the country, from 25 percent to 35 percent; and on items considered to be luxuries and to impede the development of domestic industries, from 35 percent to 200 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign currency without restriction. Tourist resorts, hotels, and guest houses must pay their taxes and rent in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The private sector may export most items, with the exception of fresh and frozen tuna. Locals and foreigners are encouraged to fish in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) outside a 75-mile zone from the shoreline reserved for traditional fish- ing. A royalty is payable to the Government on fish caught in the EEZ. Exports of fish caught by local residents, except ambergris, are exempted from duties. Exports of fish caught by foreigners and joint- venture parties are subject to an export duty; re- exports are exempted from the duty. Imports and Import Payments Proceeds from Invisibles Imports from Iraq, Israel, South Africa, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Minis- try of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, and sugar) and aviation fuel are mainly imported by the state trading organization. All goods may be imported under an open general license system. Licenses are issued on application. Ad valorem import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. or c. & f. value of imports as appropriate. Staple com- modities (rice, wheat, flour, and sugar), essential med- icines specified by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and textbooks specified by the Ministry of Education are exempted from duties; certain products imported for personal use are also exempted from duties. Duty Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travel- ers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign investors are required to pro- vide at least 75 percent of their capital investment in the form of either cash or capital goods financed 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 MALDIVES from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted freely. Exemption from du ty and tax other than tourism tax may be granted for a period as specified by the Government. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the importation and exportation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 20. The 50 percent margin requirement for opening letters of credit by private sector importers was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 per F 0.02. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are offi- cially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies con- cerned. The banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to or from nonmember countries of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), all of which must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transfers are sub- ject to a stamp tax. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effected through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of import payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are nei- ther official schemes for currency swaps nor a guar- anteed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Economy and Finance has sole authority in exchange control matters but has dele- gated certain exchange control powers to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. Imports and exports are registered with the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. l rThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other member of the Operations Account Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Oper- ations Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by for- eign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to foreign accounts in francs opened by these correspondents with an authorized bank in Mali. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized interme- diaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 established three categories of import: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certif- icate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Regime B); and (3) imports subject to special prohibitions for rea- sons of security, public health, and the like (Regime C). Imports originating in a member coun- try of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) were subject to Regime A, as were some products from European Community (EC) coun- tries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities. Other products from the EC countries, such as lux- ury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, were subject to quotas under 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MALI Regime B, as were all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources —for example, grants, foreign investment, and development loans —were admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Effective June 15, 1989, all import-licensing requirements and quotas were abolished. All imports, except those from Israel and South Africa, which are prohibited, are required only to be regis- tered, and permits are issued automatically. A new, revised tariff regime took effect on February 26, 1991. Under this regime, products are classified into seven categories and subject to the same rate; under the previous system, about 4,000 categories were subject to different rates. With the exception of petroleum products, tariff rates are ad valorem and based on the c.i.f. value; under the old regime, a number of taxes were levied on the basis of administrative values (valeurs mercuriales). Petroleum products are subject to a variable levy, based on administrative values established with reference to prices charged by refineries in Dakar and Abidjan. Imports are subject to additional taxes, ranging from 20 percent to 40 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. Residents traveling for purposes of tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a person (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which they may use on several occasions during the year. Any unused foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary within eight days of the traveler's return to Mali. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 a trip. Residents travel- ing to foreign countries may take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equiva- lent in Bank of France bank notes or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may take out higher amounts only if they declared them upon entering Mali. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account, and any pay- ment instruments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Remittances abroad for family maintenance, education allow- ances, and medical treatment, and transfers of prof- its/dividends from foreign direct investment may be made freely by authorized intermediaries when the appropriate documentation is presented. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate of registration. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Opera- tions Account Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 321 countries require authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from these countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above) and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A new investment code was adopted on January 1, 1991, which simplified procedures for foreign and domestic investors to obtain preferen- tial treatment with respect to domestic taxes for investments that meet specific criteria on employ- ment creation, domestic content of production, location, and value of investment. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coins and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira, the external value of which is determined on the basis of a weighted basket consisting of the pound ster- ling, the U.S. dollar, and the European Currency Unit (ECU). The weights accorded to the currency components reflect the relative importance of the United Kingdom, the rest of Europe, and all coun- tries outside Europe in Malta's current account transactions.1 The Central Bank of Malta computes the daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest avail- able market quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of the other currency components of the basket. The latest available market quotations used are usually those available through the Reuters Service at the time markets open for business in Malta. In deal- ings with the commercial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied on the middle rate to com- pute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank (except for deals in ECUs, which have a spread of 0.025 percent). On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar were US$2.6758 and US$2.6692, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The com- mercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional for large amounts and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange, except for a 10 percent levy on services involving overseas travel and portfolio investment abroad, and a sub- sidy in the form of a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling provided temporarily by the Central Bank to tour operators from the United Kingdom. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. Any forward contract con- cluded between a bank and a customer must be accompanied by a similar contract between that bank and the Central Bank. The forward facilities offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are intended to provide cover for firm con- tractual commitments involving the importation and exportation of goods and services. Capital transactions are excluded. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange rate risk entailed in its forward contracts with the commercial banks. The Central Bank also provides forward cover directly to government departments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malta, as agent for the Min- ister of Finance, administers exchange controls; the Director of Trade in the Ministry for Development of the Tertiary Sector administers trade controls. Approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which may also give or renew guarantees and indemnities for any purpose, for the account of both residents and nonresidents. In the latter case, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri, foreign cur- rency, or foreign securities for the duration of the guarantee. Authority to approve foreign exchange payments solely for travel purposes has also been delegated to a limited number of foreign exchange bureaus. The Central Bank is responsible for issuing licenses to operators of such agencies. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an external account or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri held in an external account or in any foreign currency. 1 For the purpose of deriving the currency weights, investment income flows of the banking system are excluded from current account transactions. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 323 A bilateral trade and payments agreement is maintained with the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; outstanding balances are settled in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts, designated external accounts, in Maltese liri. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to nonresidents, with trans- fers from other external accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents, for trans- fers to other external accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and main- tain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with trans- fers from another foreign currency account belong- ing to a nonresident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other foreign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control per- mission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain foreign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for the importation of items that need clearance for health, safety, security, and environmental reasons, as well as for particularly sensitive items, such as wheat, flour, cakes and pastries, gold and silver filigree, furniture, and lace. Other products may be imported without restric- tion under open general licenses (OGL). Tinned milk (410 grams), sugar, crude soybean oil, frozen boneless beef, barley, maize, and hard and soft wheat are imported by state monopolies. It is expected, however, that the importation of most of these items will be liberalized by the end of 1993. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and related import license, where applicable, are sub- mitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep foreign currency accounts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities if the amounts involved exceed the limits delegated to the autho- rized banks. Except for family maintenance allow- ances, which are granted only for hardship cases, these limitations are indicative in nature and intended to prevent capital outflows. In the case of leisure and business travel, there are no restrictions on payments for accommodation and transporta- tion purchased in Malta or abroad with credit cards or Eurochecks. There are, however, limitations on the amount of foreign currency (cash and traveler's checks) residents may take abroad. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance equivalent to Lm 1,000. For trips of five days or fewer (including day trips), the allowance is set at a maximum of Lm 50 a day. For trips of six days or more, the allowance cannot exceed Lm 600 a trip. Persons who do not use any of their travel allowance during a calendar year are allowed to hold over LmSOO for the following year; this amount can be used only if travelers avail them- selves of the amount in addition to the full allow- ance of Lm 600 (i.e., Lm 900) during the first trip of the year and if the trip is at least six days indura- tion. On returning to Malta, travelers must surren- der any unused portion of the travel allowance, including the special extra allowance of LmSOO. Business travelers are allowed an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to Lm 100 a person a day, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip.3 Frequent business travel- ers may obtain a blanket six-month authorization with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon the exhaustion of authorized funds. All services connected with overseas travel, excluding the price of air or sea tickets sold in Malta, are subject to a 10 percent tax.4 The tax is charged on the local value of funds to be exchanged into foreign currency for use overseas. Travel ser- vices provided for purposes of medical treatment, education, sports, emigration, and commercial trucking (for the importation and exportation of goods) are exempted from the tax upon application 3 Effective Janua ry 1, 1993, these restrictions have been abol- ished, and the annual allowance has been increased from Lm 1,000 to Lm 2,500 for each person. The daily allowance for busi- ness travel has been doubled to Lm 200 a day, and the Lm 2,000 max imum allowance per trip has been removed. 4 Effective February 1, 1993, this tax was replaced by a 10 percent tax (with a max imum of Lm 20) on the price of a ticket for travel originating in Malta. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MALTA to the Central Bank. Travel services provided to government departments are also exempt from the tax. Although the tax covers cash gifts to overseas beneficiaries, such gifts are exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank if they are made for specific philanthropic purposes. Cash gifts may be sent abroad up to an annual maximum of Lm 250 a person. The allowance for educational expenses is unlimited. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires per- mission from the Central Bank; permission is invariably granted, af ter compliance with certain formalities (e.g., companies must supply audited accounts). Life insurance expressed in Maltese cur- rency may be contracted only with insurance com- panies that are duly licensed as required by the Insurance Business Act of 1981. Nonresident travelers may export foreign cur- rency up to the amount they brought in and declared to customs on entry. Up to Lm 25 in Mal- tese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to the European Community countries require licenses for administrative purposes. The proceeds of exports must be received within six months of shipment and surrendered within a reasonable period thereafter. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes. Without the authorization of the Minister of Finance, the impor- tation of any notes and coins that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital Applications for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Due regard is given to the purpose of the investment and the potential benefits accruing to 5 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as persons who are at the time living in Malta and have either lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. 6As one of these formalities, the Central Bank requires certifi- cation that certain obligations relating to profits or dividends have not been breached in contracts with domestic banks that lent to the company. the local economy. The remittance of liquidation proceeds from such investments also requires approval from the Central Bank; such approval is always granted, contingent on compliance with cer- tain formalities, such as the submission of docu- mentary evidence of the original investment. Nonresident portfolio investment in Malta is sub- ject to central bank approval allowing residents to issue or transfer securities to nonresidents. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non- residents) Act of 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,7 with the excep- tion of certain special cases related mainly to eco- nomic development. Nonresidents are allowed to acquire immovable property in Malta only for their own use, on the condition that the cost of property to be acquired is not less than Lm 15,000. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior approval from the Central Bank. All transfers abroad of a capital nature by resi- dents require approval from the Central Bank. Applications for direct investment overseas are considered on their own merits. Portfolio invest- ment abroad by residents is permitted by the Cen- tral Bank under certain conditions: the resident must be over 18 and must not invest more than Lm 1,000 a year. A tax of 10 percent is levied on such investments under the provisions of the Expenditure Levy Act of 1990.8 The tax is also lev- ied on transfers of investments from one resident to another. Certain transfers are, however, exempted from the tax upon application to the Central Bank; these include the conversion of one type of invest- ment to another by the same resident, the transfer of an investment from one direct member of a fam- ily to another, and the transfer of an investment as a result of death. The transfer of an investment between a local bank and a resident, which is cov- ered by a special permit issued by the Central Bank, is also exempt. Capital receipts repatriated by residents must be either surrendered to an authorized bank for con- version into domestic currency or held in the form of an interest-earning foreign currency account 7 For the purposes of this act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta but excluding Maltese citizens living abroad or foreign spouses of citizens of Ma l ta; and (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (c) 25 per- cent or more of its shades or other capital is owned by a nonresi- dent person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. 8 This tax was abolished on J a n u a ry 1,1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 325 with an authorized bank. Residents must inform the Central Bank of these transactions. Although applications by residents to purchase real estate abroad are not usually permitted, the Central Bank considers each case on its own merits. Residents are, however, allowed to switch financial investments already held overseas (with the per- mission of the Central Bank) into real estate assets situated outside Malta. Foreign nationals who reside in Malta and decide to take up residence elsewhere are normally allowed to transfer all of their assets to their new country of residence. Maltese nationals who emi- grate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 15,000 a family; on application to the Central Bank, any excess amount is normally released in three equal installments over a period of three years after the date of departure.9 Banks other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta are restricted in the amount of net foreign assets they may acquire. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins that are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coins and to acquire jewelry but must obtain per- mission from the Central Bank to purchase and sell any gold coins that are not legal tender. The impor- tation of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are used for genuine numismatic purposes. A specific import license is required for the importa- tion of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured and semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold and silver are restricted. Sub- ject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion, but only to jew- elers and other industrial users. The exportation of gold by residents other than the monetary authori- 9 The limit of Lm 15,000 applied to Maltese emigrants was eliminated effective January 1,1993. ties also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 25. The Maltese lira was devalued by 10 percent. At the same time the currency basket was updated on the basis of the average current account transactions during 1989-91, which resulted in an increase in the weight of the ECU and a decrease in the weights of the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Advance payments for imports not exceeding Lm 10,000 would no longer require the submission of supporting customs entry forms. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The travel allowance system based on the length of trips taken (up to five days and six days or more) was abolished, and an annual allowance of Lm 2,500 was established. February 1. The 10 percent levy on foreign exchange for travel services was removed. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Export proceeds were allowed to be credited to an authorized foreign currency account and used for any authorized transaction within three months, after which the balance would have to be converted to Maltese liri. Capital January 1. The 10 percent tax on portfolio invest- ments abroad by residents was abolished. January 1. The limit of Lm 15,000 applied to trans- fers abroad by emigrants of Maltese nationals was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. Dollar.2 There is no central mone- tary institution and there are no exchange control regulations. The authorities do not buy or sell for- eign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers. These com- mercial banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Forward transactions may be conducted through these com- mercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be settled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to import-licensing require- ments, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for envi- ronmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied under the Import Duties Act of 1989. Specific duties are lev- ied at the following rates: cigarettes, 35 cents per pack (of 20); carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, 15 cents per can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); beer and malt beverages, 30 cents per can or bottle (of 12 fluid ounces); spirits and distilled alcoholic bever- ages, $20 per U.S. gallon; wines, $10 per U.S. gallon; gasoline, 25 cents per U.S. gallon; propane, 3 cents per pound; jet fuel, 15 cents per U.S. gallon; and ker- osene, 5 cents per U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties range from 5 percent to 75 percent. With the excep- tion of food items, which carry a rate of 5 percent, most other products are subject to a duty at the rate of 10 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, and there are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing, processing, and exportation of copra and copra by-products are solely conducted by the government-owned Tobo- lar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are required to submit applica- tions to the Cabinet and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. The Cabinet has the authority to formulate policies regarding incen- tives and priorities for foreign direct investment. All other inward and outward capital transfers are unrestricted. lpThe Republic of the Marsha ll Islands became a member of the IMF on May 21,1992. 2The Marshall Islands must consult the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' rela- tive importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the international foreign exchange market, as published by Reuters, are used to determine the ouguiya's daily exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 16 other currencies,1 including those used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these cur- rencies as published by Reuters. On December 31, 1992, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 115.6 per US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied to pur- chases and sales through commercial bank accounts. The Central Bank of Mauritania sells for- eign currency notes and traveler's checks only for official travel and for other purposes judged to be exceptional; commissions of 1.75 percent are applied to purchases and sales involving traveler's checks and foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are free to set their exchange rates for foreign currency notes and travel- er's checks, which they may buy on a no-questions- asked basis. A quarterly average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Adminis- tration. This exchange rate is also applied to remit- tances by Mauritanian workers residing abroad. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has dele- gated to authorized banks the power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that it has approved and to sell foreign currency notes and traveler's checks to meet bona fide invisi- ble payments up to specified limits. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information neces- sary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through Authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. All imports require exchange control approval from the Central Bank. Special regimes apply to the imports of government entities and state enterprises. A tax of 1 percent is levied on international trade to finance the collection of statistics. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: con- vertible ouguiya accounts and convertible foreign currency accounts. Convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited only with (1) transfers from other convertible ouguiya accounts, (2) 15 percent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company, and (3) 25 percent of the repatriated proceeds from exports by qualifying enterprises. These accounts may be debited in foreign currency only for expenses relating to exporters' production activi- ties. Convertible foreign currency accounts may be credited only with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency and transfers from other convertible for- eign currency accounts; they may be debited for any payment without approval from the Central Bank, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MAURITANIA Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards or holders of special autho- rizations from the Ministry of Commerce are permit- ted to engage in import transactions. Prepayment of the minimum turnover tax in the amount of UM 300,000 is necessary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must receive foreign exchange approval from the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corporation has a monopoly over imports of sugar. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except for imports directly financed from abroad. After the foreign exchange transaction has been approved by the Central Bank, the importer is entitled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the pay- ment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company. There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. There is a general customs du ty rate of 15 percent and a reduced rate of 5 percent that applies to selected goods. Certain capital goods and various consumer goods, such as tea, salt, and medicines, are exempt. All imports from the West African Eco- nomic Community (WAEC) that are not subject to the regional cooperation tax are also exempt, as are some imports from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and the EC. In addition to the customs duty, import taxes are levied at rates ranging from 5 percent to 166 percent (with various exemptions); a turnover tax on imports (TCA) is levied at a minimum rate of 12 percent and a maximum rate of 20 percent (with various exemptions); and a regional cooperation tax is levied on certain industrial products imported from WAEC countries in lieu of import duties that are levied on other imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Payments for invisibles to other countries must be approved by the Central Bank. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 50,000 a person (UM 20,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 200,000 a per- son a trip to African countries, UM 350,000 to Europe, and UM 400,000 to America and Asia; the annual limits range up to UM 1 million, depending on the applicant's business turnover. For medical treatment, the annual allocation is the equivalent of UM 400,000, and for studies abroad, UM 60,000. Bona fide requests for larger travel allocations may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. Foreigners working in Mauritania may transfer savings from their salaries up to varying percentages, according to marital sta- tus. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exporters must submit to the Central Bank for approval Certificates for Export on which they specify the quantity, value, and destination of the goods to be exported and must undertake to repa- triate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be longer than 60 days af ter the date of ship- ment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company, and a special exemption applies to the repatriation of its export proceeds. Exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Com- pany. Certain enterprises are allowed to retain 15 percent of export proceeds on foreign exchange accounts maintained at domestic banks. A tax is levied on exports of fish and crustaceans, at rates ranging from 6 percent to 17.5 percent for specialized fisheries, and at a rate of 5 percent for shrimp and lobster. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents for services and all income earned abroad from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic bank notes by travel- ers is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 329 Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and between Mauritania and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Maurita- nia and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Residents must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to invest abroad. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania2 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days of receipt of the declaration. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investments must also be declared. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Cen- tral Bank within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, as does bor- rowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code of January 23, 1989 pro- vides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and divi- dends accruing from these investments can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The exchange rate of the ouguiya against the dollar was depreciated by 6.59 percent. October 4. The exchange ra te against the U.S. dol- lar was depreciated by 21.8 percent. October 18. Commercial banks were permitted to set freely their exchange rates for foreign currency notes and traveler's checks. Payments for Invisibles October 18. The foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of UM 40,000 a person (UM 20,000 for children under 10 years) from UM 20,000 (UM 10,000 for children under 10 years). The foreign exchange allowances for business travel were increased as follows: (1) to the equivalent of UM 150,000 a person a trip to African countries from UM 100,000; (2) to the equivalent of UM 300,000 a person a trip to Europe from UM 150,000; and (3) to the equivalent of UM 350,000 a person a trip to America and Asia from UM 200,000. The maximum annual allocation for business travel would be limited to 10 percent of the applicant's business turnover (provisional fig- ure for the year of application) with a ceiling of UM 1 million. The allowance for medical treatment was increased to the equivalent of UM 300,000 from UM 60,000 for a patient, and to UM 100,000 from UM 30,000 for a companion. December 6. Foreign exchange allowances were increased as follows: (1) tourist travel, to the equiv- alent of UM 50,000 a person; (2) business travel, to the equivalent of UM 200,000 a person a trip to African countries, to the equivalent of UM 350,000 a person a trip to Europe, and to the equivalent of UM 400,000 a person a trip to America and Asia; (3) medical treatment, to the equivalent of UM 400,000; and (4) studies abroad, to the equiva- lent of UM 60,000 a year. Exports and Export Proceeds including those made by companies in Mau r i tan ia that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Maur i tan ia. 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mau r i tan ia and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Maur i tan ia. October 19. Certificates for Export replaced the Export Authorization and Undertaking to Repatri- ate forms. These certificates would be the only doc- uments required from holders of import-exporter cards to engage in export transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mau r i t ius is the Mau r i t ian Rupee, the ex te rnal va lue of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted bas- ket of currencies of Mau r i t ius 's ma jor trad ing partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign cur- rencies are quoted by the Bank of Mau r i t ius (the central bank), w i th asymmetrical margins amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars and to 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in French francs. Rates are obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Maur i t ius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 25.6858 and Mau Rs 25.7823, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 16.9767 and Mau Rs 17.0405, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 3.0841 and Mau Rs 3.0977, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars at rates based on those quoted by the Bank of Mauri- tius. Spreads allowed between the buying and sell- ing rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transac- tions in pounds sterling, 1.25 percent for U.S. dollars, 1.6 percent for French francs, 2.25 percent for Japa- nese yen and Swiss francs, and 2.375 percent for deutsche mark. Commercial banks' buying and sell- ing rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. A transfer tax of 5 percent is applied to most authorized outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds, repatriation of approved foreign investments, and placement abroad or in offshore banks of working balances of companies operating in Mauritius), and a du ty of 5 percent applies, under certain conditions, to purchases of gold coins and bullion. Forward exchange facilities in pounds sterling, French francs, and U.S. dollars are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in l rThe exchange control regulations of Mau r i t ius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mau r i t ian rupee. the export processing zone (EPZ) and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for onlending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a uniform margin of 3 percent a year. In addition, companies operating in the EPZ and other Mauri- tian exporters and traders dealing in priority imports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies oper- ating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to maintain, with local commercial banks, accounts denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency proceeds from exports may be maintained in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated by the Financial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for issuing required import permits. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mau- ritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees from a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. Mauritius maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Madagascar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) transfers from other external accounts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to autho- rized dealers of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of Mauritius, (2) transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign cur- rency or gold. The Nonresident (External Account) 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 331 Scheme reintroduced on September 25, 1985 is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incentives to transfer their savings to Maur i t ius and to open savings or fixed deposit accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees and term deposit accounts (for a minimum of one year) in foreign currencies. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free at any time to transfer the balances of their accounts, together with interest. The Bank of Mauritius bears any exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies. Blocked accounts are used to credit funds owned by persons and firms residing outside Mauritius and realized from investments made before Aprils, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 500,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments made by residents of Mauritius and specifically authorized for credit to a blocked account; these accounts may also be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from blocked accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, however, the proceeds are once more directed to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1982, all imports other than exempt or prohibited goods, as specified in the third and fourth schedules, respectively, require import per- mits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax pur- poses. Commercial banks are authorized to approve and transfer funds for import payments without limit. Certain imports are subject to customs sur- charges, and a du ty of 17 percent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Local commercial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of low-priority goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports and purchase of foreign exchange for travel are permit- ted without restriction. Residents may hold interna- tional credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad. There are established limits for payments and transfers in respect of family sup- port, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nation- als, gifts, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical ser- vices, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be granted by the exchange control authorities on a case-by-case basis. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited, unless permission is obtained from the Bank of Mauritius. Exporters are allowed to operate foreign exchange agreements at the commercial banks. Exports of certain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled, and the Mauritius Sugar Syn- dicate is the sole exporter of sugar. No tax is levied on the first 3,000 tons of sugar exports, but a uni- form tax of 18.75 percent is levied on exports above that amount. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be repatriated within six months of shipment and offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but travelers may not import more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonresidents of Mauritius may, sub- ject to permission, transfer funds in the blocked accounts to any country on payment of a 5 percent tax; but foreign investors are allowed to repatriate their capital, including capital gains, without pay- ing a tax and without prior approval from the Bank of Mauritius. Capital transfers by residents are sub- ject to a transfer tax of 5 percent. Permission to repatriate capital is granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, if the original investment was made with funds transferred from abroad. Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 MAURITIUS from such activities as the sale or liquidation of for- eign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to blocked accounts. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 5 percent du ty or for invest- ment in Mauritius without payment of the duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of off- shore banking facilities came into force on January 1,1989. Emigrants to any country may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of duty, the equiv- alent of Mau Rs 500,000 a family from their Mauri- tian assets upon redesignation as nonresidents, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a blocked account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to the 5 percent duty. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commemorative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as per- sonal jewelry and ornaments. The importation and exportation of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to a 15 percent duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The requirement that the Bank of Mauri- tius approve advance payments for imports of goods other than spare parts and machinery was abolished. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The travel allowance for residents of Mau- ritius of Rs 200,000 a person during a period of two calendar years was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. Exporters became eligible to operate for- eign exchange accounts with commercial banks. As a result, they no longer need to convert one foreign currency into rupees in order to purchase another. July 1. The export permit requirement was abolished. Capital July 1. The tax applicable to residents and nonres- idents was reduced from 15 percent to 5 percent. All foreign investors became eligible to repatriate capital, including capital gains, without prior approval from the Bank of Mauritius or payment of a 5 percent tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso.1 The Mexican authorities follow a policy of adjusting the external value of the peso in small amounts on a daily basis. Between November 11, 1991, when the dual exchange rate market was unified, and Octo- ber 20,1992, the maximum selling rate was depreci- ated daily against the U.S. dollar by Mex$ 0.20, and the minimum buying rate was held constant. On October 21,1992, the daily depreciation of the max- imum selling rate was increased to Mex$ 0.40 per U.S. dollar, while the minimum buying rate was to be held constant until the end of December 1993. The differential between the maximum selling and minimum buying rates has thus been fur ther wid- ened. On December 30,1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Mex$ 3,051.2 and Mex$ 3,183.6, respectively, per US$1. No limitations apply on access to ownership or transfer of foreign exchange. Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to the Mexican bank where the account is held or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of Central Bank Operations in the Bank of Mexico. Commer- cial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for residents in the northern area of Mexico and time deposits denomi- nated in U.S. dollars (b>t payable in Mexico) for residents in any part of the country. The same type of accounts may also be opened for Mexican firms operating in Mexico; in addition, firms may open accounts denominated in U.S. dollars and payable only abroad. On November 12,1946, Mexico formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Effective November 11, 1991, all controls on ex- change transactions were abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI). Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Bank of Mexico. Prescription of Currency In accordance with payments agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecua- dor, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, pay- ments to these countries must be made through the Bank of Mexico using clearing accounts maintained reciprocally by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar arrangements exist with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Malaysia, and Nicaragua. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from SECOFI are required for only 198 of the 11,803 items in Mexico's general import tariff, except for temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for nine months and may be extended for an additional three months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the import- er's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an export- er's declaration of shipment. Since Ju ly 1,1988, the import ta r i ff structure has been based on the har- monized product description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade (GATT). Imports f rom member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tar iffs. A free trade zone regime is granted for certain regions2 in the country un t il December 31, 1992 and un t il August 31, 1995 for 1 On J a n u a ry 1, 1993, a new currency, the new Mexican peso, equivalent to 1,000 (old) Mexican pesos, was introduced. 2 These regions are the free t rade zones of Ba ja Ca l i fo rn ia Norte, Baja California Sur, Qu in tana Roo, and the pa r t ial Ba ja California free trade zone of Sonora. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 MEXICO the newly established border zone w i th Guate- mala. This regime allows imports into these regions without customs ta r i f fs as long as the imported goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mex- ico, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies unless Mexican firms do not offer the types of insurance required, in which case prior authorization from the SHCP is required. Reinsurance is permitted with foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items are prohibited. Mexican banks are authorized to grant loans in foreign currency for export activities. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Exports (PROFIEX), a drawback sys- tem of import du ty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States, Mexico was granted the ben- efit of the injury test in countervailing du ty investi- gations until April 23, 1994, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the use of proceeds from invisibles. Capital Foreign investments must conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. The federal Government has ownership and control over certain strategic areas, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electrical and nuclear energy, specified mining activi- ties, railroads, mail, and other activities as stated by Mexican law. In addition, foreign investment is for- bidden in the following activities: money exchange establishments, radio and television, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified by the federal Government. Foreign investors may hold 100 percent owner- ship in new firms (in sectors other than those restricted to the state and national companies). In most of the unrestricted sectors, approval is auto- matic upon registration with the National Registry of Foreign Investment if the following conditions are met: (1) new investments do not exceed a maximum amount set periodically by the National Foreign Investment Commission (CNIE); (2) financing for new projects is obtained outside the country (how- ever, foreign companies established in Mexico may finance the capital requirement from their own resources); (3) new investments are located outside the areas of greatest industrial concentration; (4) the accumulated foreign exchange flows generated by new investments balance over the first three years of operation; (5) new investments create permanent employment and establish adequate training pro- grams; and (6) new investments use appropriate technology and observe legal provisions regarding environmental standards. Foreign investors are authorized to hold a 100 percent share in new or existing in-bond enter- prises that produce for export markets. Foreign investments are permitted in the Mexican stock mar- ket through specially designed trust funds and "B" shares of Mexican corporations, but participation is not allowed in the administration of the companies involved. The trust funds are allowed to acquire and hold specially designated "N" or neutral shares of Mexican corporations and to transfer to foreign investors the economic rights to such shares through the sale of trust participation. Foreign direct investments in Mexico must be recorded with the CNIE, and applications by for- eign individuals or enterprises to acquire more than 49 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the CNIE, except in those special cases mentioned above. Investment proposals to which the CNIE has not responded within 45 days af ter an application is submitted are considered to have been approved. The Bank of Mexico has authorized brokerage firms to provide nonresident investors with custody and manage- ment services in respect of securities issued by the Mexican Government. The rules favoring the trust funds that enable for- eign investors to participate in tourist projects have been simplified. Gold Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the prevailing exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 335 Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement May 29. The responsibility for administering the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Exchange Risks (FlCORCA) was transferred to the Trust Fund for the Administration of External Financing (FAFEXT). (FlCORCA was abolished on March 18,1993.) June 22. The Government announced that a new currency, the new Mexican peso, would be introduced on Janua ry 1, 1993. One new peso would be equ iva lent to 1,000 of the fo rmer Mexi- can pesos. October 21. The daily depreciation of the selling intervention point was increased from Mex$ 0.20 to Mex$ 0.40 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments January 17. Mexico and the United States announced common sanitary regulations governing bilateral trade of meat products, mainly pigs and poultry. March 27. SECOFI published six items to be sub- ject to import-licensing requirements until March 31, 1993; the items consisted mainly of personal computers and related items. August 15. The importation of meat was restricted and subjected to the prior approval of the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH). November 12. The licensing requirement for imports of lobster, shrimp, prawn, and similar spe- cies was abolished. November 19. The free trade zones of the states of Baja California Norte, Sonora, Baja California Sur, and Quintana Roo were authorized until December 31, 1993. Exports and Export Proceeds May 4. The licensing requirement for cattle exports was abolished. June 2. SECOFI announced that the export-licensing requirements for 227 items were abolished. June 2. The prohibition on trade with South Africa was lifted, with some exceptions. July 3. The licensing requirement for tequila exports was abolished. September 3. The licensing requirement for shrimp exports was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Exports and Export Proceeds The currency of the Federated States of Microne- sia is the U.S. Dollar.2 There is no central monetary institution. A statutory banking board, established in 1980, regulates the financial system. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three com- mercial banks, which buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. For- ward transactions may be conducted through com- mercial banks without restriction. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There are no exchange control regulations.3 Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in U.S. currency or in any other convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to any import-licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or spe- cific basis, as follows: cigarettes, carbonated nonal- coholic beverages, drink mixes, drink preparations, coffee, tea, beer and malt beverages, and wines, 25 percent; spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $10 per U.S. gallon; and gasoline and diesel fuel, Scents per U.S. gallon. Ad valorem duties are 3 percent on foodstuffs, 100 percent on laundry bar soap, and 4 percent on all other products. l rThe Federated States of Micronesia became a member of the IMF on June 24,1993. 2 The Federated States of Micronesia must consult with the United States if it decides to issue its own currency. 3 The Compact Agreement with the United States exempts the importation, use, possession, and exportation of U.S. currency by U.S. armed forces and U.S. contractors or personnel from any form of regulation, restriction, or control by the Federated States of Micronesia. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, but exporters must obtain an export business license. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. The purchasing and expor- tation of copra are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Commercial export docu- ments are verified by the customs authorities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital Foreign investors are regulated by federal and state authorities. They must obtain an application from the Federal Government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located. They must obtain a license from the Federal Gov- ernment to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a foreign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the Federal Gov- ernment and submitted to the Federal Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located and operated. Priorities for foreign invest- ment are reviewed by the federal and state authori- ties from time to time. Although no special financial incentives are offered to foreign investors, a num- ber of incentives are available under certain U.S. laws (e.g., duty-free access to the U.S. market for some products). Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with laws prohibiting land ownership by foreigners.4 Foreign investors normally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 25 years with an option to renew for another 25 years) for land acquired for their business.5 There are no restric- tions on the repatriation of profit or capital. 4 Article XII, Section 4 of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia prohibits a noncitizen or a corporation not wholly owned by citizens from acquiring title to land or waters in the country 5Article XII, Section 5 of the Constitution prohibits "agree- ments for the use of land for an indefinite period." 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 337 Changes During 1992 , _ , _ , Imports and Import Payments r ^ August 5. Customs duty rates were revised as fol- lows: cigarettes, carbonated nonalcoholic bever- ages, drink mixes, drink preparations, coffee, tea, beer and malt beverages, and wines, 25 percent; , , u £ spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages, $10 per U.S. gallon; gasoline and diesel fuel, 5 cents per U.S. gallon; and all other products, 4 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Moldova is the Russian Ruble.2 The exchange rate system consists of three rates: the official exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, which is based on the Moscow Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange rate for the U.S. dollar; the market exchange rate, which is deter- mined through currency auctions; and the "tourist" exchange rate, which is based on demand and sup- ply conditions. The official exchange rate is applied to foreign exchange surrendered to the National Bank of Moldova (NBM), official external debt ser- vice payments, accounting, and tax valuation pur- poses. Exporting and importing enterprises may purchase foreign exchange through auctions at par- ticipating banks (for orders of up to $25,000) or at the NBM (for amounts exceeding $25,000). A mini- mum bid of $10,000 is required. Auctions at the NBM are operated by a special committee consist- ing of six representatives from the NBM and repre- sentatives from all commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In principle, auctions are to be held twice a month, but they have been held irregularly. The "tourist" market is operated by each bank for its individual customers. The two major sources of foreign exchange for these markets are foreign exchange brought in by tourists and export earn- ings of individuals conducting border trade with Romania. Sales of foreign exchange in these mar- kets are restricted to an annual limit of $200 a per- son ($300 for an emigrant). The exchange rates in this market are determined by market forces. On December 31, 1992, this exchange rate was rub 446.15 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Presidential Decree No. 24 of Februarys, 1992 provides temporary regulations pertaining to for- eign exchange transactions, and a d ra ft law on reg- ulations of foreign exchange is under preparation. This decree establishes a legal framework that sets forth the purpose of exchange control and autho- rizes the NBM to issue regulations. While the Par- liament has the ultimate authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements, the NBM is re- sponsible for managing the country's foreign ex- change reserves, regulating the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are commercial banks, hotels, and institu- tions involved in activities related to tourism, and foreign exchange bureaus authorized to purchase from and sell to residents and nonresidents foreign bank notes and traveler's checks in any currency recognized by the NBM in amounts not exceeding $10,000. For amounts exceeding $10,000, approval from the NBM is required. Foreign exchange bu- reaus may set their own buying and selling rates. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspon- dent accounts, and settlements with countries with which Moldova maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of these agreements.3 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident natural and juridical persons may open currency accounts and hold certificates of deposits, which they may use at their own discretion, at authorized banks. The source of foreign exchange is not subject to investigation. All foreign currency earnings of residents must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks. The opening of cur- rent and other accounts by Moldovan residents in foreign banks abroad requires approval from the NBM. Account holders may use foreign exchange balances in their accounts to settle domestic trans- actions relating to transportation and other services with organizations authorized to perform such ser- l rThe Republic of Moldova became a member of the IMF on August 12,1992. 2 The Parliament of Moldova made the decision to issue a national currency (on J anu a ry 23,1992), but the currency has not yet been issued. 3 At the end of 1992, Moldova maintained bilateral trade agree- ments with China, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Repub- lic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. These agreements contain the most-favored-nation clause and, with the exception of the agreement with Romania, specify that settlements are to be made in convertible currencies at world market prices. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 339 vices in foreign exchange. Nonresident entities with foreign currency deposits at authorized banks may freely transfer the balances abroad or sell them to authorized banks at a rate determined by the NBM. Imports and Exports Importers and exporters engaging in trade with countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. must be registered. Imports of medicine, medical equipment, chemicals for plant protection, industrial waste, and all other goods exceeding $500,000 in value require a license. An advance payment of at least 30 percent is required for imports exceeding $20,000. The importation and exportation of arms, explosives, nuclear materials, narcotics, precious metals and stones, poisons, and games of chance are state monopolies. A 15 percent customs duty is levied on goods imported from countries enjoying most-favored- nation status, with the following exceptions: (1) ciga- rettes and electronics, 100 percent; (2) alcoholic bever- ages, videocassettes, cameras, television sets, radios, and used automobiles, 50 percent; and (3) new auto- mobiles, 30 percent. The tariff rates are doubled on imports from other countries. Grain cultures, medi- cines, and medical equipment are free of duty. All exports require a license. Quotas are applied to 22 major product categories, including 8 food items (citric acid, strong national beverages, wine, cognac, tomato paste, concentrated juices, cham- pagne, and vegetable oils); 10 consumer items (cot- ton and silk fabrics, knitwear, hosiery, clothing, footwear, electric irons, freezers, televisions, car- pets, and rugs); and 4 industrial goods (pumps, cement, rolled black metals, and electric energy). The exportation of the following goods is prohib- ited: sugar, sunflower oil and seeds, eggs and egg products, butter, medicine, processed and unpro- cessed leather, and tobacco. A license fee is levied on exports as follows: 200 rubles if the exporter of the goods is the producer; 20 percent of the value of the shipment if the exporter is not a producer but the trader; and 30 percent if the product exported by the trader is cigarettes. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 30 days. All enterprises other than joint ventures in which the foreign capital participation is greater than $250,000 and constitutes at least 30 percent of the total capital equity of the enterprise are required to sell 35 percent of their net foreign exchange earn- ings (if they are producing enterprises) and 50 per- cent (if they are intermediaries). Net proceeds are defined as export proceeds exclusive of freight, insurance, and the cost of imported inputs. Pro- ceeds from exports under barter arrangements are not subject to a surrender requirement. The surren- der requirement for foreign exchange earnings in convertible currencies and the minimum import requirements of essential goods (under barter arrangements) are reduced by 50 percent if the exporters import raw materials, equipment, and spare parts for their own use. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange for travel abroad in the "tourist" market up to $200 a person a year. The annual limit for travel by emi- grants is $300 a person. All proceeds from invisibles, except the earnings of workers residing abroad, must be repatriated within 30 days of the completion of service, but they are not subject to surrender requirements. Capital All capital transactions require specific approval from the NBM. Gold A license is required to conduct international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Tugrik ( lOOMongo per 1 Tugrik). The exchange rate sys- tem consists of two rates: the official rate, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, and the free market rate, which is determined by demand and supply condi- tions.1 The official exchange rate applies, on the receipts side, to the portion of the proceeds from exports of goods and services surrendered by the public sector; and, on the payments side, to public sector imports and services (including debt ser- vice). The official exchange rate is also applied to trade and service transactions conducted under the bilateral payments arrangements. All other transac- tions, including sales of retained foreign exchange by the public sector enterprises, take place at the free market rate. On December 31,1992, the official exchange rate was Tug 40 per US$1, and the rate in the free market averaged about Tug 330 per US$1. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates of the U.S. dollar against the currencies concerned on international markets. Administration of Control Authority for control over foreign exchange rests with the People's Great Khural (Upper House of Parliament), which approves the foreign exchange budget as part of the overall annual economic plan. On the basis of this budget and projected foreign exchange earnings, the Ministry of Finance pre- pares detailed sectoral foreign exchange allocations, and the Bank of Mongolia ensures that the alloca- tions are implemented. During 1992, exchange allo- cations for most sectoral ministries were exhausted, and additional allocations were made on an ad hoc basis on the basis of available foreign exchange resources. Private sector entities are allowed to engage in foreign trade activities, although interna- tional trade is still conducted almost exclusively by state enterprises, which dominate productive activ- ities, and through state foreign trading organiza- tions (FTOs). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. 1 On May 27, 1993, a unified floating exchange rate system based on an interbank market was introduced. All trade with members of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) is conducted at world prices on the basis of convertible curren- cies. The modalities for settling outstanding bal- ances under the former International Bank for Economic Cooperation clearing arrangements, including the appropriate exchange rate for the transferable ruble, are currently under negotiation, and trade with members of the former CMEA, other than the states of the former U.S.S.R., is being conducted on an ad hoc basis under bilateral arrangements that were concluded before 1991. In July 1992, Mongolia concluded bilateral trade agreements with some of the states of the former U.S.S.R., with an indicative value of trade in each direction set at $70 million. Mongolia also main- tains bilateral clearing agreements with China and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts. Resident per- sons and enterprises may maintain foreign exchange accounts at authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances on the accounts may be used for any purpose without restriction. Imports and Exports Import and export trade is handled by state enterprises and the private sector. Permission to export is required from the Ministry of Trade and Industry, which issues an export license when a proposed export contract is submitted. Most restric- tions on exports have been eliminated, except for some products for environmental reasons, rare met- als, live animals, and meat. Private traders are allowed to purchase products for exports, except for live animals and meat, at free market prices. State enterprises and cooperatives are required to surrender a part of the proceeds from exports of the following products at the official foreign exchange, as follows (the surrender ratios indicated in paren- theses): (1) coal, wool, raw leather, livestock, meat, and cashmere and camel wool (80 percent); (2) semiprocessed leather and fur (70 percent); (3) copper concentrates, molybdenum, and flue spa 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 341 (55 percent); (4) fur and sheepskins (50 percent); and (5) sheep's wool and carpets (40 percent). Private sector exporters are allowed to retain all of their earnings and may deposit them in foreign exchange accounts and use them for any purpose without restriction, subject to compliance with appropriate regulations. They may also sell them in the free market. Imports are subject to a uniform 15 percent customs duty and a 10 percent import surcharge; flour, tea, rice, machinery and equip- ment imported by joint ventures, and equipment used by disabled people are exempted from the customs duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Limits have been imposed on the amount of for- eign exchange that students, business travelers, and tourists can purchase at the official rate; foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad is also sup- posed to be provided on a case-by-case basis. In practice, foreign exchange has not been provided for these purposes, and no foreign exchange is granted at the official rate for invisible payments that are not related to merchandise trade. Payments for and proceeds from invisibles, however, may be transacted in the free market without restriction. Remittances of dividends and profits from invest- ments in convertible currencies are permitted under the Law on Foreign Investment of May 1990 (see below). Capital Foreign direct investment has been liberalized, and foreign investment by private corporations is now being encouraged. The new Law on Foreign Investment (May 1993) has codified the procedures for establishing foreign firms in Mongolia and pro- vides certain guarantees and privileges to foreign investors. Among its provisions are that these firms will not be nationalized and that foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. Trans- fers of profits abroad are not restricted. The maxi- mum rate of profit tax is 40 percent, and foreign investors are exempted from the tax for periods of three years, depending on sector and export perfor- mance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices and they may import or export directly or in cooperation with the foreign trade enterprises. The law particularly encourages investment in export promotion, projects using advanced technology, and the exploitation of natu- ral resources. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The exchange rate that applied to barter trade (Tug 7.1 per US$1) was merged with the offi- cial exchange rate (Tug 40 per US$1). Prescription of Currency March 1. A special clearing account arrangement was established for settling trade with China dur- ing 1992. Imports and Exports March 1. The ratios of surrender requirements that would apply to proceeds of exports by state enterprises were amended as follows: copper con- centrate, 55 percent; molybdenum concentrate, 55 percent; flue spa, 55 percent; coal, 80 percent; wool, 80 percent; raw leather, 80 percent; semipro- cessed leather and fur, 70 percent; livestock and meat, 80 percent; cashmere, 80 percent; camel wool, 80 percent; sheep's wool, 40 percent; leather, 50 percent; carpets, 40 percent; and fur and sheep- skin, 50 percent. October 1. The private sector was allowed to import petroleum products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of January 31 ,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes a daily rate for the French franc on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geo- graphic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco are estab- lished on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in rela- tion to the French franc in the Paris exchange mar- ket. On January 29, 1993, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.66196 per F1, and the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.9762 per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each separate cur- rency. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transac- tions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Payments of compensation between banks are not permitted; thus, no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buy- ing and selling rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit denominated in convertible currencies (those listed in footnote 1 and French francs, but excluding Alge- rian dinars, Libyan dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya, and Tunisian dinars) and specified other curren- cies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at Bank Al-Maghrib when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. For- ward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded between banks and their customers result in reverse contracts Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, European Currency Units (ECUs), Finn- ish markkaa, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Maur i ta- nian ouguiya, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2Cu r ren t ly CFA francs and G ibra l tar pounds. between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corre- sponds to the spot exchange rate, against the pay- ment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by authorized banks; provisions are made for extend- ing contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Commercial banks may engage in arbitrage operations with nonresident customers. Morocco formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 21,1993. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Part of the Port of Tangier is designated a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in currencies quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib (see footnote 1) or through for- eign accounts in convertible dirhams and foreign currency accounts opened in Moroccan banks in the name of foreign correspondents. Nonresident Accounts The following accounts may be opened and oper- ated by nonresidents. Foreign currency accounts may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, ei- ther residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be freely credited with transfers from abroad; with foreign bank notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign cur- rency; and with foreign currency withdrawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special autho- rization from the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad in favor of the ac- 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 343 count holder or a third-party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. Foreign accounts in convertible dirhams are reserved for natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized transfers in favor of the account holder and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of foreign exchange, including bank notes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib. Foreign transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are norestric- tions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards to set- tle their bills in Morocco and abroad. Convertible dirham accounts may be opened in the name of nonresident Moroccans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restric- tions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in con- vertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convert- ible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign currency-denominated means of payment. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not enti- tled to guaranteed transfers but who may transfer funds within a period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, to fund investments in Morocco, buy treasury bonds, purchase transferable securities quoted on the Ca- sablanca Stock Exchange, settle expenses incurred in Morocco and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The beneficia- ries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50 percent of an investor's participation in in- vestments in Morocco (the remainder must be fi- nanced with funds transferred from abroad). Repatriation of funds accruing from liquidation of investments undertaken with the proceeds of con- vertible term accounts is not restricted, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with the annual General Import Program, which includes a negative list of goods requiring prior authorization. After the elimination of 460 product items in March 1992, only pharmaceuticals, energy, and textile goods still are on the negative list. All goods not appearing on this list may be freely imported with- out restriction on quantity or value. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance compa- nies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad; this group includes externally funded imports if the financing terms include foreign insur- ance; and capital goods and equipment under turn- key contracts or duly authorized investment programs covering crude oil, gas and diesel oil, cat- tle, and wood. For all imports, the importer must subscribe to a security or commitment that must be lodged with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Spe- cial procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods may be financed directly from the proceeds of exports within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for up to 25 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports of capital goods. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, with a maximum tariff rate of 40 percent, except for a limited number of agricultural goods, for which the maximum rate is 45 percent. In addition to regular customs tariffs, a fiscal levy of 12.5 percent ad valo- rem is in effect. Imports used as inputs in export pro- duction activities may be exempted from import duties and other import restrictions under the tem- porary admission scheme. Preferential customs tariff treatments are also granted to imports of capital goods by enterprises in the tourism and shipping ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 MOROCCO sectors and other industrial enterprises qualifying under the provisions of Morocco's Industrial Invest- ment Code. Imports of a relatively small number of items representing about 8 percent of industrial pro- duction are subject to minimum import prices (refer- ence prices) for antidumping or safeguard purposes. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks are allowed to transfer to non- resident foreign persons, without prior authoriza- tion from the Exchange Office, the profits earned on foreign direct investments in Morocco. Authorized banks are permitted to make pay- ments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents without authorization from the Exchange Office. Moroccan enterprises are permit- ted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners working for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector may transfer up to 50 percent of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Retired persons have the same entitlement; they may also contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Commercial banks are authorized to provide Moroccan residents with up to DH 5,000 in foreign exchange a person a year for travel purposes with- out approval from the Exchange Office. The Exchange Office grants approval for bona fide applications for additional amounts on proof of need. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. A foreign exchange allowance of up to the equivalent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher edu- cation for a child studying abroad. Business travel by exporters of goods and ser- vices may be financed without restriction from funds from convertible export promotion accounts maintained with Moroccan banks, which may be credited with 20 percent of proceeds from merchan- dise exports and 10 percent of proceeds from exports of services. Business travel allowances for others are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. Authorized banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by other indi- viduals not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel allowances may be added to allowances for tourist travel. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of DH 20,000 to persons traveling abroad for medical treatment and make transfers on their behalf to hospitals and medical institutions for treatment abroad. These banks may also transfer pensions provided by public and private agencies to persons residing abroad permanently. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain con- vertible dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the fu ll dirham equivalent of for- eign exchange earnings, and foreign currency accounts may be credited with 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. Foreign air- lines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Moroccan film distribution companies may trans- fer to foreign film producers or distributors user fees and other additional expenses related to the showing of these films in Morocco. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for studies abroad without referring to the Exchange Office, as follows: (1) an annual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000, and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allowance for liv- ing expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Workers leaving Morocco for employment abroad for the first time or returning to their work- place abroad may be granted DH 5,000 in foreign bank notes upon presentation of employment con- tracts. Transfers relating to remittances for family maintenance are approved upon presentation of documentary evidence. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of exchange certificate(s) up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange into dir- hams. The exportation of domestic bank notes is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Capital MOROCCO 345 Almost all exports may be made freely. Only subsidized food products, live animals, and archaeological items are subject to authorization. Fruits, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by- products may be exported either directly by the producers or through a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de com- mercialization et d'exportation (OCE)), which is also in charge of wine exports. The Cherifien Phos- phate Office Group has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates and phosphate prod- ucts. Mineral products are subject to an ad valo- rem export tax amounting to 5 percent for hydrocarbons and 0.5 percent for all other miner- als, except phosphates. Since 1992, the export tax on phosphates has been replaced by a tax on phos- phate exploration equivalent to DH 34 per ton of gross phosphates. A 1 percent quality control tax is applied to exports of foods tuffs. All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The for- eign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 120 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at its destination. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used to repay export credits. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and resident juridical persons must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other resi- dents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surren- der foreign exchange in their possession within one month of their return to Morocco, but they are granted an allowance in foreign exchange up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 when leaving Morocco. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resi- dent travelers may also bring in foreign bank notes in any amount, as well as any other means of pay- ment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their arrival. The importation of domestic bank notes is prohibited. The industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and eases the repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors and provides for fu ll repatriation of tourist-related after-tax profits, without any restraint on timing. All types of investment are permitted without prior authorization from the Exchange Office, including: (1) participation in the equity capital of a company being established; (2) subscription to the capital increase of an existing company; (3) purchases of Moroccan securities; (4) contributions to partnerships; (5) purchases of real property; (6) self-financing con- struction projects; (7) establishment or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase cap ital through the capitalization of reserves, carryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available, or through the consolidation of partnership current accounts. Operations involving transfers of invest- ment ownership between foreigners do not require the authorization of the Exchange Office. Repatriation of capital, including capital gains, is permitted with- out restriction. The holders of convertible term accounts may freely use funds on these accounts for financing investment operations in Morocco in all sectors of economic activity, regardless of the kind of invest- ment; for purchasing treasury bonds under the existing laws; for current account advances from foreign corporations to their subsidiaries in Morocco and any other placements the account holder may make; for acquiring transferable securi- ties quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; for settling living expenses and any other expenses in dirhams in Morocco incurred by account holders or their spouses, direct ancestors, and direct descen- dants (in the case of individuals) or by duly desig- nated agents (in the case of corporations) with no limits on the amount; and for paying duties and taxes due in Morocco by account holders. Further- more, the original holders of convertible term accounts may freely transfer funds from their accounts to resident or nonresident foreigners or to nonresident Moroccan nationals. Funds on convert- ible term accounts so transferred may be used by the new holders to cover all dirham expenses incurred in Morocco by foreign film production companies for shooting films in Morocco; to pur- chase secondary residences (provided they are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 MOROCCO located in a tourism development area for the buy- ers' personal use); to finance up to 50 percent of capital increases of subsidiaries of foreign corpora- tions established in Morocco, provided that the rest is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad; and to finance partial investment opera- tions in Morocco in all sectors, regardless of the form of investment (in this case, debits from the convertible term account are allowed to cover up to 50 percent of the investment only, provided that the remaining 50 percent is financed with foreign exchange transferred from abroad). Transfers of capital by foreigners leaving the country permanently are limited to DH 25,000 for each year spent in Morocco, with no overall ceiling. Moroccan nationals residing in the country and corporations established in Morocco may invest abroad with the authorization of the Exchange Office. However, they are required to remit the income generated by their investments and the pro- ceeds from liquidation of their investments. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Direc- torate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importa- tion of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1992 Nonresident Accounts January 24. Blocking of funds belonging to the "suspense" and "capital" accounts of nonresident foreigners was abolished. These accounts were replaced with "convertible term accounts," and transfers of funds in these accounts would be allowed after five years. Imports and Import Payments February 14. The General Import Program was announced. Under this program, prohibited imports would be included on a negative list, and all other products could be imported without prior authorization. Payments for Invisibles January 17. Commercial banks were authorized to transfer abroad net earnings of foreign airline companies. March 25. The purchase of insurance policies abroad for imports financed with external funds under contracts that stipulate such purchases was permitted. Imports of investment goods and equip- ment turnkey contracts covering crude oil, gas, die- sel fuel, cattle, and wood were permitted. May 5. Moroccan film distribution companies were authorized to remit abroad through the bank- ing system, without prior approval, cinemato- graphic royalties and incidental costs in favor of foreign film producers and distributors. August 27. Moroccan enterprises were authorized to enter freely into technical assistance contracts with foreign partners and to remit the relevant user fees without the prior authorization of the Exchange Office. September 2. Authorized banks, the postal ser- vices, and the office of the Treasury Collector were allowed to transfer living expenses in favor of Moroccan students abroad up to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 a month for scholarship holders. September 16. Moroccans traveling abroad as tour- ists or for religious purposes were granted foreign exchange allowances equivalent to DH 5,000 a year. October 23. Authorized banks were allowed to transfer abroad insurance and reinsurance opera- tions on behalf of nonresidents. November 13. Authorized banks were allowed to transfer abroad payments due on various current operations, including expenses relating to current advertising, subscriptions to foreign publications, and examinations for entrance to specialized uni- versity colleges. November 27. Authorized banks were allowed to make, without restriction, all payments due with respect to sea transportation on behalf of shipown- ers, consignees, and maritime agents. December 8. Road transportation companies, con- signees, and forwarding agents were authorized, without restriction, to transfer funds for expendi- tures related to international road transportation. December 24. Authorized banks were allowed to transfer pensions paid by public or private agencies in favor of retired persons residing abroad permanently. Capital September 15. Foreign direct investments were fully liberalized, and repatriation of proceeds from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 347 liquidation or sale of investments, including profits, would be permitted without restriction. which the rate was maintained at 40 percent or 45 percent. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments June 10. The maximum customs duty was reduced from 40 percent to 35 percent, except with respect to a number of agricultural products, for Payments for Invisibles ]mmry 13 Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign exchange allowances equivalent to DH 20,000 for professional travel by individuals covered under the existing allowance system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais), which was pegged, until March 31, 1992, to a weighted basket consisting of 10 major currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of these currencies in Mozambique's external transactions in goods and services. Exchange rates for these and 11 other currencies1 are published daily by the Bank of Mozambique (BM), the central bank. On April 1,1992, the official exchange market (excluding transactions relating to tied aid) was merged with the secondary market for foreign exchange. Exchange rates are determined by supply and demand conditions, and authorized operators are free to set buying and selling rates. All three commercial banks —the Banco Commer- cial de Mozambique (BCM), Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), and Banco Standard Totta de Mozambique (BSTM)—are licensed to operate in the foreign exchange market, as are four financial institutions—SOCIEF, SAFRIQUE, LUSOGLOBO, and PROINVEST. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the metical in the secondary market, in terms of the U.S. dollar, were Mt. 2,748.97 and Mt. 2,762.72, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Tied aid is transacted at a special rate, which has remained depreciated by about 8 percent rela- tive to the secondary market rate since April 1992. On December 31,1992, the special (selling) rate was Mt. 2,545.35 per US$1. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares annually, in consultation with the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, and Cooperation, as well as the BM, a global foreign exchange budget for the following year, as part of the Government's Eco- nomic and Social Program. Imports and exports are authorized through licenses, issued by the Ministry Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollars. of Commerce for statistical purposes. Invisible transactions are controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Mozambique maintains a bilateral clearing agree- ment with Tanzania, but transactions under it have been suspended. It also maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe, but these relate to use of national cur- rencies for border trade. Nonresident Accounts Foreigners residing in Mozambique may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange at the BM and the BSTM. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. They may also open domestic currency accounts in any bank operating in the country, but transfers of such funds abroad require proof that the amounts originated in foreign cur- rency. Persons or businesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific pur- poses based on their legitimate interests in Mozam- bique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the regulations established by the competent authorities. Former residents (national and foreign residents who no longer enjoy resi- dency status) may hold bank accounts in Mozam- bique, but their use is subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Withdrawals may be made for payments of taxes, certain types of debt (fees and obligations to the Government, govern- ment agencies, credit institutions, and insurance companies, provided that such debts are properly verified), family maintenance and expenses incurred by the account holders while visiting the country, and other payments for which authoriza- tion is obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports exceeding the equivalent of $500 are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are provided routinely. The license speci- fies, among other things, the place of embarkation or disembarkation of the goods and the amount and currency of payment. A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' funds. In order to ensure that donors' requirements are met, 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 349 import requests are reviewed by the Office for the Coordination of Import Programs. Tied import sup- port funds are allocated by the BM to the commer- cial banks. Individuals may import goods up to the equivalent of $500 without an import license if the goods are financed with their own foreign exchange resources and tied aid funds are not involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the BM upon presentation of authorization granted by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Allowances for travel are made available only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment, and applications are approved on a case-by-case basis. Individuals are permitted to buy foreign exchange up to certain lim- its for payment of expenses associated with travel for education, scientific and cultural visits, and medical treatment. An annual ceiling equivalent to $2,000 is applied to other travelers. Remittances for education abroad are subject to a monthly ceiling equivalent to $300. Each ministry is subject to a ceiling on foreign exchange for official business and educational travel expenses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment con- tracts. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount they declared on entry. Exports and re-imports of domestic currency are prohibited. An airport fee equivalent to $10-$20 in foreign cur- rency is levied by the airport authorities on interna- tional departures, depending on the destination. Remittances of profit/dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a license. All export pro- ceeds must be collected through the BM and sold in the secondary exchange market. Export licenses are granted liberally, except for the exportation of shrimp and raw cashew nuts. Export duties are levied on a number of raw materials and foodstuffs, as follows: cotton fiber, 1 percent; corn, 3 percent; live animals, 3.5-4.0 percent; raw materials, 4-22 percent; edible oils 3.5-5.0 percent (copra oil, 5 percent); textiles, 3.5- 5.0 percent (cotton fabrics, 3.5-4.4 percent); fish, crus- taceans, shellfish, 4 percent; sugar, 2-8 percent; copra seeds, 8 percent; cashew nuts, 11 percent; and pea- nuts, 13 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange holdings of commercial banks and other financial institutions are subject to a limit. Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifically, miners in the Republic of South Africa) are obliged to remit 60 percent of their earnings through the BM and convert them into meticais. Capital The Government, the BM, and the private sector are authorized to borrow abroad. Public enter- prises are also allowed to borrow abroad, pro- vided that loans are guaranteed by the BM or the Government. All foreign borrowing must be chan- neled through and registered with the BM, which may guarantee such loans if requested. The For- eign Direct Investment Law, published in April 1984, aims to encourage foreign investments owned fu l ly by foreign interests or jointly with Mozambican enterprises. The law guarantees investors the right to repatriate capital and trans- fer abroad a portion of profits. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office. Gold The marketing and exportation of gold are regu- lated by Decree No. 11/81 of July 25,1981. The BM is responsible for enforcing this decree. The impor- tation of gold or other precious metals is governed by special regulations. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The official exchange market (excluding transactions relating to tied aid) was merged with the secondary market for foreign exchange. The coverage of the secondary foreign exchange market was greatly expanded with the inclusion of all tra- ditional and nontraditional export proceeds and tourism receipts, all government debt-service oper- ations, other government current and investment expenditures, and all other imports by individuals and enterprises. The secondary market rate thus became the principal exchange rate. Foreign exchange provided by donors may not be used for the importation of goods on the negative list, that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 MOZAMBIQUE is, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, radioactive mate- rial and related products, jewelry, and gold. Com- mercial banks and certain financial institutions were allowed to operate in the foreign exchange market, and banks were also allowed to open letters of credit for their clients. The BM established limits on the amount of foreign exchange these operators may hold, and any excess balances were required to be transferred to the BM. Tied aid was henceforth transacted at a special rate, which was discounted by 8 percent relative to the rate in the secondary market. Users of tied aid were required to report the rate used for each trans- action of tied funds to the BM. At the beginning of each business day, the untied funds would be offered by the BM to the foreign exchange operators at the previous day's closing buying rate of the secondary market, plus a com- mission of 0.5 percent. The foreign exchange opera- tors would apply a margin of 2.25 percent to this interbank buying rate to calculate the selling rate to the public. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar Kyat, which is officially pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1. Myanmar applies margins of 2 percent to spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat- SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calcula- tions of the value of these currencies against the SDR, as are rates for the currencies of some member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (that is, the Bangladesh taka, the Indian rupee, the Pakistan rupee, and the Sri Lanka rupee). On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.1798 and K 6.3033, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ring- git, the Netherlands guilder, and the Singapore dollar are determined daily on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market, and buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates published in the Asian Wall Street Journal or the London Financial Times. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and the Exchange Control Board through the Cultural Bank of Myanmar in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of allocating foreign exchange. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Myanmar maintains no bilateral payments agree- ments. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settle- ments with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an external account in Myan- mar. Receipts must be collected in convertible cur- rencies or to the debit of an external account in Myanmar. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international orga- nizations, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents. Such accounts are normally held in deut- sche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely but do not earn interest. Transfers of balances between these accounts are permitted with approval. Foreign nationals residing temporarily in Myanmar are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards to use in diplomatic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. The following regulations apply to the operation of foreign currency accounts by residents: (a) Foreign currency accounts of national firms. Pri- vate exporters who are registered with the Ministry of Trade are allowed to retain 100 percent of their export proceeds and may open foreign currency accounts with them. Account holders are allowed to import under valid import licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade on the basis of import letters of credit or on a collection basis. (b) Foreign currency accounts of national individuals. The following individuals are currently allowed to open foreign currency accounts: (1) Myanmar na- tionals returning from abroad after completing their assignments; (2) Myanmar nationals working abroad with foreign firms under official permits; (3) Myanmar seamen working with foreign shipping lines under current regulations; (4) Myanmar nation- als working with the United Nations and its affili- ated organizations; (5) service personnel of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs performing their duties with Myanmar embassies abroad; (6) Myanmar na- tionals receiving pensions in foreign currency after serving with foreign governments or international organizations; (7) Myanmar nationals receiving for- eign exchange for services rendered to foreign indi- viduals, foreign organizations and firms, or foreign governments; (8) Myanmar nationals receiving their 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 MYANMAR pay in foreign currency abroad for services rendered as agents to foreign firms; (9) Myanmar nationals re- ceiving rentals in foreign currency for their tangible and intangible assets; (10) Myanmar nationals re- ceiving foreign currency from an inheritance; (11) Myanmar nationals receiving foreign currency in compensation from a foreign firm or insurance company for the death or disability of a family mem- ber while serving with a foreign firm; and (12) My- anmar nationals receiving foreign currency in the form of gifts or presents from a blood relative or a friend living abroad. A foreign currency account may be opened in any of the following currencies: deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Account holders are allowed to use funds from their accounts to pur- chase air tickets for family visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports and for exam- ination fees for their children. With prior approval, they may also pay for medical treatment abroad. (c) Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Invest- ment Law enacted on November 30,1988, economic organizations formed with permits issued by the Union of Myanmar Investment Commission and foreigners employed by these economic organiza- tions are required to open both a foreign currency account and a kyat account. Under the same law, the following may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the Commission: (1) foreign currency belonging to the person who brought in foreign capital; (2) foreign currency withdrawn by the person who brought in foreign capital; (3) net profits remaining after all taxes and prescribed funds have been deducted from the annual profits received by the person who brought in foreign capital; and (4) balances of salary and lawful income earned by the foreign person for ser- vices performed in the state and remaining a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of living expenses incurred by him and his family. Imports and Import Payments Import trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. Opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, among other items, may not be imported from any source. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports involving use of official foreign exchange are han- dled by the public sector through the ministries. With a few exceptions, private sector imports require import licenses. State economic enterprises may import goods for their own use and for resale without applying for import licenses, whereas gov- ernment departments may import only for their own use. Imports by government departments are exempt from prescribed fees but those by the pri- vate sector are not. Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Myanmar Five-Star Shipping Line whenever possible. All payments for imports not originating from border trade are made through the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank and the Myanma Investment and Commercial Bank. State economic enterprises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget after receiving endorsement from the respective ministries. Myanmar nationals who have opened foreign currency accounts are allowed to make unlimited payments for personal imports with the funds from their accounts. Myanmar nationals working abroad under official permits who have not yet opened foreign currency accounts may make payments on their personal imports out of their accumulated savings of legitimate funds. Myanmar nationals and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal and other classi- fied goods when they enter the country. Border imports require permits. Payments for border imports may be effected directly from the proceeds from border exports. Exporters of agricultural, for- estry, and fisheries products are encouraged to import up to the amount equivalent to 25 percent of export value selected items that will contribute to the production in these sectors (Ministry of Trade Press Communique No. 5/91, dated July 12,1991). Payments for Invisibles There are no licensing requirements for payments in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institu- tions abroad and payments for subscriptions to cer- tain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernment; the limit is one-half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad and one-third of the net salary if the wife is living in Myanmar. Outward remit- tances of insurance premium payments other than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 353 for the Myanma Insurance Corporation are not per- mitted. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees is permitted only if the persons concerned have been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now resid- ing in their native countries. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Residents who have been granted an official per- mit to travel abroad may freely take out $50 and the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of for- eign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. The exportation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. In practice, state agencies responsible for produc- tion may export any product in excess of what is needed for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. The state eco- nomic enterprises handle the exportation of a few products, such as teak, petroleum and natural gas, pearls, jade, and precious stones and metals. The exportation of these products and other controlled items may be permitted by foreign or domestic firms in the private sector. Rice is exported by the Myanma Agricultural Produce Trading in the name of the Myanma Export-Import Services; private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export a number of beans and pulses, rattan, flour, and cut flowers under valid export permits issued by the Ministry of Trade. Certain products, includ- ing rice, teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, some beans and pulses, maize, cotton, and ground- nuts, may not be exported across the border. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities. An export retention scheme is in operation, under which 100 percent of foreign exchange proceeds from exports may be retained by the same individ- ual trader or cooperative responsible for exporta- tion. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports made on a c.i.f. basis must be shipped by the Myan- mar Five-Star Shipping Line or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered unless the exchange control authorities grant special permission to retain them. They may grant permission to foreign nationals residing in Myanmar in connection with official business. Trav- elers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must sur- render all foreign exchange in their possession unless they receive special permission to the con- trary. The importation of Myanmar currency is pro- hibited. Myanmar nationals working abroad with permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Myanmar seamen serving abroad must repatriate 25 percent of their basic pay; the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Myan- mar nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to income tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earn- ings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of the nationals or their families. Myanmar nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to transfer to Myanmar as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. In addition, if their annual earnings exceed $5,000, they are required to remit home between 2 percent and 10 percent of their earnings, depending on the length of their stay abroad. Capital Under the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law enacted on November 30,1988 by the Union of Myanmar State Law and Order Restoration Council, the Foreign Investment Commission is empowered to accept proposals for investment in Myanmar from foreigners for (1) full ownership, and (2) a joint ven- ture, with the share of foreign capital representing at least 35 percent of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign investment, the Commission may grant exemption from customs duties on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, and from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years, including the year when production of goods and services began, or for more than three years, depending upon the success of the enterprise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 MYANMAR The Government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nationalized during the term of the contract, or dur- ing an extended term, if so extended. Capital and profits may be transferred abroad through foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Myanmar. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The exportation of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to cus- toms when it was brought into Myanmar. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Namibia is the South African Rand. The exchange market in Namibia is managed by the South African Reserve Bank, whose princi- pal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$0.3273 buying and US$0.3272 sell- ing per R 1. Spot and forward exchange operations are regu- lated by the exchange control and banking regulations of South Africa. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover, for transactions by residents in any foreign cur- rency in respect of authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments and accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents subject to certain limitations. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is given to authorized dealers for maturities not exceed- ing 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the two currencies. Special rand forward cover at preferential rates is provided in respect of import financing offered to and accepted by Namibian importers. Such special forward cover must coincide with the redemption date of relevant financ- ing and may not be canceled before maturity. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward antic- ipated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the financial rand system of the Common Monetary Area (CMA) —a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland —local sales and redemption proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved out- ward capital transfers by residents are not allowed to be transferred in foreign currency but must be retained in the form of financial rand balances. These balances are transferable among nonresi- dents at a freely determined exchange rate, and the exchange rate for the financial rand is usually dis- counted from the commercial rand rate. These bal- ances may be used to purchase securities (quoted and unquoted) and to finance investments in new firms and certain properties. Exchange Control Territory Namibia is part of the CMA. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. In its rela- tions with countries outside the CMA, Namibia applies exchange controls that are almost identical to those of other CMA members. Administration of Control The Bank of Namibia, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Import and export permits, where required, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The authorized dealers automatically provide foreign exchange for imports from outside the Southern African Customs Union (SACU)1 upon presenta- tion of necessary documents. Advance payments for imports require the approval of the Bank of Namibia. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Namibia and Lesotho but not in Swaziland. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents are divided into nonresident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from coun- tries outside the SACU are usually licensed in con- formity with South Africa's import regulations. For purposes of import permit issuance, Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations of South Africa is currently enforced. These permits are l rrhe members of the SACU are Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. 2A nonresident is a person (i.e., a na tu ral person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the CMA. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NAMIBIA valid for one year, are expressed in value terms, and are valid for imports from any country out- side the SACU. At present, about 90 percent of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU and f rom countries of the SACU under certain conditions. A wide range of imports from countries outside the SACU is subject to a general sales tax of 11 percent (as are locally produced goods) and to surcharges ranging from 7.5 percent on certain foods tu f fs to 40 percent on nonessential luxu ry goods. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are empowered to approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established lim- its, as follows: (1) annual allowances for tourist travel of R 19,000 for an adult and R 9,500 for a child under 12 years (basic annual allowances for travel to the neighboring countries—Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimba- bwe—are R 6,000 for an adult and R 3,000 for a child under 12 years); and (2) business travel allowances are not more than R 1,800 a day, with a maximum of R 28,000 in a calendar year (to the neighboring coun- tries mentioned above, allowances may not exceed R 900 a day and R 12,000 a year). Residents leaving Namibia for destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take the full applicable allowance in for- eign bank notes. A larger amount may be granted on presentation of documented proof of need. There are no prescribed limits on remittances for education and family maintenance, and reasonable amounts are granted on a case-by-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are permitted without a license and are shipped through South Africa. Permits are required for the exportation of goods in short sup- ply to the non-SACU area. All export proceeds are normally required to be remitted to Namibia and surrendered within six months of shipment or within seven days of the date of accrual. In order to enforce the repatriation requirement, exporters are required to cover for- ward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 500 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital All capital transfers to and from destinations out- side the CMA in the form of loans are subject to specific approval from the Bank of Namibia. Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a ma tur i ty of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely permitted, whereas applications by residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the CMA funds for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by resi- dents are considered on their own merits. Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents are transferable only through the medium of financial rand. Non- residents are not allowed to purchase farms and residential properties with financial rand. Families emigrating to destinations outside the CMA are granted the normal travel (tourist) allowance and are permitted to remit up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding this limit must be credited to an emigrant blocked account; the bal- ance, including earned income, may be transferred under prescribed conditions. At the time of their arrival, immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities. Any foreign assets they transfer to the CMA may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the first three years of their arrival. Gold Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Namibia for numismatic and investment purposes only. All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 357 Changes During 1992 Exchange Control Territory April 1. Namibia became a part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA). Payments for Invisibles September 1. The limits on annual allowances for tourist travel to neighboring countries were raised to R 6,000 from R 5,500 for an adu lt and to R 3,000 from R 2,750 for a child under 12 years; the limits for other countries were raised to R 19,000 from R I7fm for aR aduk and tQ R 9J5QQ from R ^5QQ for a child under 12 Years- The dailY allowance for dar Year was raised to R 12/0° business travel to neighboring countries was raised to R 900 from R 800, and the maximum for a calen- ° from R 11,000. The daily allowance for business travel to other coun- tries was raised to R 1,800 a day from R 1,500 a day, and the maximum for a calendar year was raised to R 28,000 from R 25,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee. Since March 4, 1992, a dual exchange rate system has been in operation. Under this system, the offi- cial exchange rate for the Nepalese rupee against convertible currencies is determined on the basis of its relationship to a currency basket; in practice, however, the official rates are closely linked to their cross-rates against the Indian rupee (NRs 1.65 per Rs 1 at the end of 1992). On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were NRs 43.1 and NRs 43.3, respectively, per US$1. A second, market- determined exchange rate operates through com- mercial banks and applies to most private sector imports. On December 31,1992, this market rate for the U.S. dollar was NRs 47.83 and NRs 48.33, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies,1 with quo- tations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal, and the Indian rupee may be used to effect all bona fide transactions. Purchases of Indian currency in excess of Rs 10,000 must be documented, and the purpose must be specified. Forward exchange cover for trade transactions is available and is provided only by authorized banks. Administration of Control Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission from the Nepal Rasta Bank (NRB). The Department of Commerce administers the licensing of imports from and exports to coun- tries other than India, when required. Each govern- ment ministry receives an allocation under the foreign exchange budget. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grind- lay's Bank, Nepal Indosuez Bank, and the Rastriya Banijya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. In addi- tion, buying rates are quoted for Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian lire, Saudi Ara- bian riyals, and Swedish kroner. All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (i.e., Bangladesh, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myan- mar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from and proceeds from exports to India may be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other coun- tries must be received in convertible currencies. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Eli- gibility for opening accounts is limited, however, to (1) Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months; (2) international organiza- tions and foreign nationals; (3) Bhutanese and Indian citizens residing in countries other than Bhutan, India, and Nepal; and (4) exporters who are allowed to deposit up to 30 percent of export earnings in a foreign exchange account to cover trade-related expenses. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum of $500 (or the equivalent in another currency), and time deposits with a min- imum of $3,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents may withdraw their deposits at any time and con- vert them into any convertible currency at the authorized banks. Nonresident Accounts The NRB permits foreign diplomats, foreign nationals working in projects financed with foreign- donated funds under bilateral or multilateral agree- ments with the Government, and nonresidents to open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Accounts may be maintained in all convert- ible currencies with approval from the NRB, and balances on these accounts may be freely trans- ferred abroad. Nonresidents who receive or bring into Nepal foreign currencies, which they convert into Nepalese rupees and deposit with a Nepalese bank, may reconvert them for transfer out of the country, with the prior approval of the NRB. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 359 Imports and Import Payments Most private sector imports are allowed under open general licenses (OGL) at the free market rate. Some imports (mainly government imports of fer- tilizer and petroleum) are effected at the official exchange rate. For a small residual category of pri- vate sector imports that are considered to be espe- cially susceptible to illegal diversion to India, an import license auction system is used. Foreign exchange is provided to successful bidders at the free market exchange rate. Imports of metal for cottage handicraft industries (except silver) are carried out through special importing companies, which receive a special allo- cation of foreign exchange. Silver is imported by the NRB and sold to silver jewelers and handcraft- exporting industries through the commercial banks. A fee of 1 percent of the value of the license is imposed for all imports, including import licenses that are auctioned, with the exception of personal imports for which the license fee varies according to the goods to be imported and the source of financing. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, twice a year they may import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, special goods worth up to NRs 15,000. Those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month are allowed addi- tional imports with proper documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, pro- vided that applications for foreign exchange are supported by documentary proof of need and the amounts are reasonable. Nepalese and Indian cur- rencies may not be exported to countries other than India, and they may be taken to India only by Nepalese and Indian nationals. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they bring in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to the NRB at the official exchange rate and to sell the remainder to an authorized bank at the free market rate. Proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the authorized banks within six months of shipment. Exports val- ued at more than $1,000 to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit or advance payments by foreign buyers. Exports of items having archaeological and religious impor- tance and certain other exports, including old coins, narcotics, and explosive materials, are prohibited. The re-exportation to India of non-Nepalese goods, and the re-exportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. The export volume of ready-made garments to the United States is restricted to an annual rate of growth of 6 percent. A minimum price system is maintained for carpets and garments. Import duties paid by exporters on goods from bonded ware- houses are refunded. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an escrow bank account and is released when the garments made from these imports are exported and the required documenta- tion is provided to verify the use of imports. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of products spec- ified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty under special circum- stances beyond the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds derived from transac- tions in invisibles must be surrendered to the NRB or an authorized bank, 25 percent at the official exchange rate and the remainder at the free market rate. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; these currencies may not be imported from countries other than India. When extending their visas, non-Indian tourists are required to produce evidence that they have con- verted a minimum of $20 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Residents and non- residents may freely bring in other foreign bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 NEPAL notes but must declare them if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $2,000. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement Capital All foreign direct investment in Nepal and repa- triation of capital require prior approval from the NRB; approval is automatically granted, provided capital transfers have been cleared by the Industrial Promotion Board. Nepalese citizens, whether or not they reside in Nepal, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible to make remittances abroad for the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on acquired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act con- tains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related industries, unless substantial transfers of technology are involved. Foreign inves- tors can hold 100 percent equity in large- and medium-scale industries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 3 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is NRs 10 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 10 million are consid- ered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. March 4. A dual exchange rate system was intro- duced as a transitional process to trade and exchange reforms. Imports and Import Payments March 8. Most private sector imports were trans- ferred to the open general license list; as a result, the number of products subject to the import license auction fell to 43 from 126 (this number declined to 12 in July). July 15. Basic duties applicable to all imports were reduced from a range of 5-200 percent to a range of 5-100 percent, and the number of categories to which rate schedules applied were reduced to 8 from 12. The range of additional duties, which applied only to imports from countries other than India, was reduced from 15-50 percent to 5-20 percent. August 8. The statutory margin deposit require- ment was abolished. Payments for Invisibles March 8. The restrictions on payments for most invisibles were abolished. The reporting require- ments, however, were retained. Exports and Export Proceeds July 15. The export retention ratio was raised to 75 percent from 65 percent. Capital June 1. A liberalization of foreign investment reg- ulations was announced. Applications for foreign direct investments would be processed through a "one window" system within 30 days of applica- tion, and foreign investors would be allowed to own 100 percent of capital in large- and medium- scale industries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of June 30,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Lux- embourg, Portugal, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the Euro- pean Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Portu- guese escudo and the Spanish peseta, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On June 24, 1993, the rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deu tschemark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Portuguese escudos 100 Spanish pesetas 5.58700 5.34150 30.21000 28.88250 115.23500 110.16750 34.36000 32.84750 2.77840 2.65620 1.20950 1.07280 1.51213 1.34124 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being mainly each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Banks quote buying and selling rates for all major foreign currencies. On December 31, 1992, the mid- dle rate for the U.S. dollar was f. 1.8141 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Residents and nonresidents are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and nonconvertible cur- rencies, both spot and forward, at negotiated rates. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transac- tion required. Residents and nonresidents are free to hold Netherlands guilder and foreign currency accounts in the Netherlands and abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls, except for the reporting requirements (in accordance with the External Financial Relations Act of 1980). Import and export licensing, including transit trade, is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For their payments to and receipts from nonresidents, residents are generally required to use the interme- diation of banks or other institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Rela- tions Act of 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of pay- ments, residents are required to indicate on report- ing forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 25,000 or its equivalent in foreign currencies, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Nether- lands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them must be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Netherlands notified the IMF on June 17, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain 7The United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and I ta ly withdrew on September 17,1992. 2 The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 NETHERLANDS restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may use guilders or any foreign currency Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as are transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quanti- tative restriction. Most imports from Eastern Euro- pean countries have been formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Community (EC) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barri- ers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations (i.e., transfers are properly reported). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic bank notes and coins or docu- 3 State trading countries are defined for this purpose as con- sisting of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet N am. ments of value. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unused documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coins that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports. There is no surrender requirement for export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel pur- poses any amount of foreign bank notes and docu- ments of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for pur- chases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are restricted only to the extent that they are subject to reporting require- ments based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980. External capital transactions are unrestricted. For direct investment in the form of capital participa- tions (inward and outward), no license is required. Neither short-term lending (for less than two years) nor long-term lending to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) requires a license. Pursuant to the Netherlands Bank's arrangements, issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper on behalf of residents and nonresidents (both interest- bearing with a maturity term of two years or more and shares) of f. 50 million or over must be reported to the Netherlands Bank by the lead managers at least one working day before the announcement of an issue in the market. The Netherlands Bank's approval is not required for the timing of an issue. For all issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 363 management requirements are in force. Lead man- agers must be entered in the register of credit insti- tutions of the Netherlands Bank and must have a full-fledged securities/issuing department in the Netherlands. In addition, reciprocity requirements apply. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may have their total assets in the Netherlands remitted to them upon departure. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions for foreign exchange control reasons. However, for supervision reasons, limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign cur- rency and precious metals. In this context, the banks are required to report their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign cur- rency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by residents must be reported to the Netherlands Bank. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by secu- rities brokers and authorized banks or, if transac- tions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Banks and nonbank residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coins, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coins. All other gold transactions are taxed at the standard value-added tax rate of 17.5 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992 were N A f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of the official buying and selling rates; on December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates were NA f. 1.7895 and NA f. 1.7905, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on pay- ments made by residents to nonresidents.3 Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with non- resident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The central bank issues exchange licenses, where required. The Department of Commerce, Industry, and Employment issues import licenses, where required. The central bank permits the commercial banks to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible cur- l fThe Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory, in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On Janua ry 1,1986, the island of Aruba, formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2A ruban florins, Canad ian dollars, deutsche mark, European Currency Units, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Ne ther lands Antillean guil- der are considered foreign currencies 3 Payments by certain entities, for example, international com- panies and pension funds, are exempted from the foreign exchange tax. rency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All payments made by residents to nonres- idents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the central bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without the approval of the central bank. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Imports whose delivery dates exceed payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the central bank. The importation of 58 items for which there are locally produced substitutes is sub- ject to quotas of 40 percent of the total value of domestic production. Some of these quantitative restrictions are being phased out and replaced by tar iffs ranging from 12 percent to 25 percent. Cer- tain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The exportation of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is prohibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender export proceeds. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 365 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfers of loans to res- idents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Investments by residents in real estate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresi- dents require a license. Investment and disinvest- ment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands Antilles do not require a license. Investment by residents in officially listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are officially quoted) is permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank accounts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 10,000 a quarter. Authorized banks' overall position w i th nonres- idents is subject to limits set by the central bank and must always be positive and in currencies considered "freely usable" as defined under Article XXX (/) of the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment and /or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market and signals its desired exchange rate range. On December 31,1992, the clos- ing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.5146 and US$0.5136, respectively, per $NZ1. Foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Financial institutions are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the source of the funds, and they are free to set their own rates for forward transactions. Forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. On August 5,1982, New Zealand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. exchange. The remaining requirements are neces- sary only to provide statistical information (to assist the Department of Statistics and the Reserve Bank in prudential supervision of registered banks and in recording foreign exchange turnover statistics). The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand. Imports are licensed by the Ministry of Commerce, and prohibited exports, by the Customs Department. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, New Zealand notified the Fund on September 30,1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency,1 as may payments to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand. Administration of Control Nonresident Accounts Receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free of control. Until February 1990, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand continued to administer the remaining exchange control provisions, which were as follows: (1) exchange dealers must be authorized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transactions involving foreign currency bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be han- dled by an authorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, details of receipts and remittances, except for small amounts, are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from over- seas and for remittances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of pru- dential supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign exchange market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. Since February 1990, when exchange control regulations were abolished, no authorization has been required to deal in foreign Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used to settle transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Licensing for clothing, the only remaining require- ment for protective purposes, was eliminated on July 1, 1992. Average tariff rates were reduced by approximately one-half by July 1, 1992 under the program announced in December 1987. At the end of 1992, the maximum tariff rate was 45 percent (on footwear), and the rates on most products were less than 20 percent. In 1992-96, most tariffs will be reduced by a further one-third. Tariffs on textiles, clothing, and carpets are being phased out at a slower pace in accordance with specific individual plans. In June 1992, it was announced that specific 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 367 tariffs were to be retained for some apparel and leather clothing. These will be reviewed as part of a general review of apparel tariffs in 1994. Import prohibitions or restrictions affect some seventy products or classes of products, primarily plants and animals, which must be quarantined, or products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. However, some restric- tions, including those on fresh fruit, are maintained to ensure orderly marketing in New Zealand. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA),2 imports enter duty-free from Australia and the SPARTECA countries. Quantitative restrictions and tariffs on imports of goods from Australia had been removed entirely by July 1, 1990. In addition, under the ANZCERTA, as of July 1990, antidumping actions were replaced by measures governed by domestic trade practices legislation. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the General- ized System of Preferences. In most cases, these preferential rates are 80 percent of the normal tariff rates. In addition, duty-free access is granted to most imports from 36 countries classified as "least developed" by the United Nations. With a few exceptions, tariffs are not imposed on finished goods that are not produced domestically. Payments for Invisibles Financial institutions are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligation to nonresidents may be freely made, although there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provides a framework for the liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zealand subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. It provides for free trade in services based on national treatment. All services are covered except for those on a negative list pre- pared by each Government; the list includes certain aspects of telecommunications, aviation, radio and television broadcasting, postal services, banking, insurance, and consultancy services. 2 The islands under this arrangement constitute the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand) — Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, N a u r u, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuva lu, Vanua tu, and Western Samoa. Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) need not be returned through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. Quotas and other quantitative restrictions are imposed on exports of agricultural products in agreement with the importing countries. Exports of lamb and butter to the European Community are subject to quotas, and voluntary export restraints are applied to exports of beef to the United States. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided (or to be pro- vided) in New Zealand, by New Zealand residents, including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand, on behalf of overseas residents, as well as interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment, do not have to be repa- triated. The ANZCERTA provides for a liberalization of trade in services rendered by New Zealand resi- dents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles, such as interest and dividends, is permitted. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coins. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must, in some cases, obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission. The Overseas Investment Regulations were liberalized, effective August 24, 1989. Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand com- pany by purchasing or exchanging shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitle- ment of 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. However, if the consideration and gross assets of the offeree company are less than $NZ 10 million, it is exempt from this require- ment. The $NZ 10 million level also triggers the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 NEW ZEALAND need for approval from the Overseas Investment Commission when a foreign entity wishes to acquire the assets of a New Zealand company or establish a New Zealand subsidiary or branch. More restrictive rules apply in the commercial fish- ing and rural land sectors deemed to be "sensitive." The $NZ 10 million trigger level does not apply to investments in these sectors. Residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for investment purposes. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of assets by emigrants. Legacies from the estates of New Zealand residents may be freely remitted abroad. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand without restriction. There are no restrictions or licensing requirements on the impor- tation and exportation of gold. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments July 1. The import-licensing requirement for cloth- ing was eliminated. The tariff reductions begun in December 1987 were completed; as a result, average tariff rates were reduced by about one-half. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Cordoba, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at C$5 per US$1. Officially recognized private foreign exchange houses also buy and sell foreign exchange. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates were C$5.31 and C$5.59, respectively, per US$1. In addition, there is an unrecognized par- allel market in which the value of the cordoba var- ies in relation to the official rate. Only the Central Bank of Nicaragua, authorized commercial banks, and authorized exchange houses may buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange houses are prohibited. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from July 30,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized com- mercial banks and exchange houses to make foreign exchange transactions. The Central Bank approves all foreign exchange transactions on the basis of pri- ority criteria that are established in accordance with sources of foreign exchange. The Central Bank is also responsible for issuing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for official foreign exchange may be effected through an authorized foreign currency deposit account or with currencies acquired from exchange houses. Importers using their own foreign currency accounts are not required to go through the exchange approval process, nor are they expected to reveal the sources of their funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the Cen- tral Bank has the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily con- vertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Imports and Import Payments All importers effecting payments through the official market are required to be registered with the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and Development. This requirement is waived for individuals who import only occasionally for their own needs. Importer registration certificates are valid for five years. For individual imports, other than those financed from an individual's own foreign currency deposit account or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific license is required from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, and registration is required at the Central Bank. In princi- ple, general import licenses are valid for five years. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be settled in the official for- eign exchange market (Central Bank and commercial banks). Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but almost all are made through letters of credit. In addition to customs duties, certain imports are subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespective of origin, and to a customs fee. In addition, most commodities, whether imported or domestically produced, are subject to a 15 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles, such as travel, educational expenses, family maintenance, and medical expenses may be effected through authorized exchange licenses; they are not normally subject to a limit. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except gold are free, requiring only registration (Registro Unico de Exportation) with the Central Bank. Exports of gold remain under the control of the Central Bank. Export registration cer- tificates are valid for 30 days. An export license is required for the exportation of traditional products. Foreign exchange proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 NICARAGUA within 45 days of shipment. Exporters who fail to surrender their proceeds will lose their export autho- rization. They may retain the proceeds from nontra- ditional exports to countries outside the Central American area in special accounts at a commercial bank and use the funds for import payment pur- poses. Exporters may use the proceeds from exports of bananas, coconuts and coconut by-products, and copra through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya to pay for imports con- sumed in these areas. They may retain all proceeds from exports from the free zone and 75 percent of proceeds from exports of seafood products to coun- tries outside the Central American area in special accounts with a commercial bank. Funds in these accounts may be used only for import payments; these exporters do not have access to the official for- eign exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to any regulation; they may be retained or sold in the offi- cial exchange market. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange persons arriving in Nicaragua from abroad may bring in and use locally. Capital All capital transactions require authorization from the Central Bank. For servicing private exter- nal debt, authorization depends on the availability of foreign exchange. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in inter- national gold markets and may sell gold to domes- tic, industrial, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967,1975, and 1980. Nat- ural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement June 3. The Central Bank authorized commercial banks to purchase foreign exchange from the public at the official exchange rate with a commission not exceeding 2 percent. August 31. The official exchange houses were abolished. November 9. The Central Bank will make foreign exchange available to the commercial banks to affect import payments at the time payments fall due rather than at the time letters of credit are opened. November 25. The 2 percent limit on commissions commercial banks charge on the sales of foreign exchange was lifted. Imports and Import Payments January 11. The selective consumption tax on imports was lowered to 20 percent from 30 percent. March 4. All restrictions on the importation of food grains were eliminated. March 31. Maximum tariffs, except those on bev- erages, tobacco, and petroleum, were lowered to 40 percent. April 6. Quotas on the importation of rice, yellow corn, white maize, and sorghum were replaced with variable levies. Exports and Export Proceeds June 25. All proceeds from exports from the free zone and 75 percent of proceeds from exports of seafood products to countries outside the area were allowed to be retained in a special account with a commercial bank and used for import payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO does not levy a commission on transfers to or from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). Banks levy a fixed commission of CFAF 100 plus a proportional levy of 0.15 percent for transfers inside the WAMU. For transfers out- side the Operations Account Area, there is a fur ther exchange commission at a market-determined rate. All of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers outside the WAMU must be transferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions, the domiciliation of exports, and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely All other countries are considered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires prior authorization from the Financial Relations Directorate of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Such cover may be provided for pay- ments for permitted imports and for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, depending on the nature of the goods involved, and is not renewable. There is no official scheme for cur- rency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. l rThe CFA franc is issued by the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Exchange control is administered by the Finan- cial Relations Directorate. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be made through the BCEAO, Postal Administration, or authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either in foreign cur- rencies through correspondent banks in France or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts Foreign accounts in francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign corre- spondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports are free of licensing requirements, but eyeglasses, masonry paint, soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are subject to protec- tive tariffs. Other products are subject to customs tar iffs ranging from 2.3 percent to 71 percent. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 NIGER All import monopolies and quasi monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1,1985 the Societe ratio- nale de commerce et de production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the importation of specified commodities, includ- ing salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. For- eign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or until eight days before the shipment da te if the goods are covered by documentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Relations Directorate, which, for certain transactions, has delegated its powers to authorized banks. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Foreigners working in Niger may transfer savings from their salaries with the prior approval of the External Relations Directorate, but these transfers are nor- mally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger trans- fers are permitted, however, against presentation of supporting documents. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and coun- tries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts may obtain an exchange allowance equiv- alent to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip (CFAF 250,000 for children under 10 years), which they may take up to twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Niger must be surrendered within 8 days to an authorized bank. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a day, with a monthly maximum of CFAF 2.25 million. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out, in addition to their travel allowance, up to a maximum of CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. Resi- dents traveling to other Operations Account coun- tries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; when traveling to an Operations Account country outside the WAMU, the maximum amount that may be taken out is CFAF 2 million, which must be declared to the customs authorities before departure. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other coun- tries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts, as well as foreign notes up to a maxi- mum of the equivalent of CFAF 225,000. Nonresi- dent travelers may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks or similar instruments issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Economic Promotion. Exports of millet and sorghum are pro- hibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des produits vivriers du Niger (OPVN). On July 10, 1990, the export license requirements for peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items was abolished. All other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account coun- tries may be made freely. Exports of domestic prod- ucts and imported commodities to other countries require an exchange commitment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign coun- tries must not be later than 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buying country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermedi- ary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Oper- ations Accounts may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of ser- vices and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 373 issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval from the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing abroad; inward and outward investment; and the issuance, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such oper- ations require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substi- tuted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. Special controls are also maintained over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate devel- opment operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by Operations Accounts. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transac- tions and not to associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance; 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger3 must be declared to the Minister of 2 Including those made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 3 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Niger. Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion to request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. (Direct investments are those implying control of a com- pany or an enterprise; mere participation is not con- sidered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Lending abroad is also subject to prior authoriza- tion from the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by autho- rized banks; and (3) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate, and the proceeds are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a foreign account in francs. The repayment of a foreign loan constituting a direct investment is subject tothe same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loans were subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31,1988 and its amendments. The facili- ties granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. In addition, the new Invest- ment Code provides for regular or privileged treat- ment. Regular treatment provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and con- cerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nation- als and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activ- ities. Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes—the approval regime and the agreement regime. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 374 Gold NIGER Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both ucettsed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration, Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. The exchange rate system consists of the interbank market and the foreign exchange bureau (FEB). In the interbank market, the official exchange rate of the naira is freely determined on the basis of market forces. Authorized dealer banks are allowed to buy foreign exchange from any source and sell it for authorized transactions. The Central Bank of Nige- ria stands ready to negotiate with authorized dealer banks to buy and sell foreign exchange at the pre- vailing rate. Authorized dealers must sell foreign exchange obtained through the market (or directly from customers) at a margin of not more than 1 percent between the buying and selling rates. The exchange rate for foreign exchange bought outside the interbank market is freely determined in FEBs, which have been operating since August 1989. These FEBs can freely buy foreign currency notes from and sell them to their clients; however, they can only buy traveler's checks from their cli- ents. The exchange rate in this market differs from the rate in the interbank market. At the end of 1992, the average rate in the interbank market was N 21.4 per US$1, and the average rate in the FEBs was about N 24.2 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions at market-deter- mined rates are permitted between foreign exchange dealers and their customers. These trans- actions must be the counterpart of an underlying import or export transaction. Foreign exchange licenses (form "M") are granted automatically upon request. Approved forms "M" and their relative let- ters of credit are valid for six months in the first instance. Authorized foreign exchange dealers are allowed to extend the validity of approved forms and their relative letters of credit for a maximum period of an additional six months without refer- ring to the Central Bank of Nigeria. Any request for fur ther extension must be referred to the Central Bank for approval. The Central Bank, however, does not engage in forward exchange transactions. ments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of foreign exchange regulations. All licensed commercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Cen- tral Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized deal- ers must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for the transactions mentioned above. Hotels and rest houses are allowed to receive payments of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated to Nigeria and retained in domiciliary accounts with authorized dealers or sold in the FEM; they are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. The Federal Ministry of Trade administers trade regulations. Arrears are maintained with respect to some external payments falling due on transactions entered into before the introduction of the two-tier foreign exchange market, which was abolished on July 2,1987. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an external account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in export proceeds domiciliary accounts, in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of the member states of the Economic Community of West African States (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clearinghouse in West African Units of Account. Administration of Control Resident and Nonresident Accounts The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for remittances of profits and dividends; for granting "approved status" to nonresident invest- There are four categories of resident and nonres- ident accounts: external accounts, nonresident accounts, domiciliary accounts, and blocked accounts. External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 NIGERIA international organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be deb- ited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for pay- ments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresi- dent accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, pro- vided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Domiciliary accounts may be funded by residents with foreign exchange derived from external sources but not with foreign exchange purchases in the FEM. Blocked accounts are accounts to which funds that are blocked by direc- tives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Con- trol Act are credited. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the intro- duction of the FEM on September 29, 1986. How- ever, importation of the following products is prohibited: meat, poultry (except day-old chicks), vegetables, fresh fruit, textile fabrics, plastic domes- tic articles, furniture, beer, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, wheat and wheat prod- ucts,1 mineral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at the equivalent of $1,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Government, are subject to preshipment inspec- tion to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid as well as the correct import duty.2 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents. temporarily l rThe ban on wheat importation was lifted between October 22,1992 and December 31,1992. 2 The following items are exempt from the inspection require- ment: gold; precious stones; works of art; explosives and pyro- technic products; ammunition; implements of war; live animals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or canned fru i ts and vegetables; scrap met- als; household and personal effects, including used motor vehi- cles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and refined petroleum products. However, such payment is made on the understand- ing that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for imports covered by confirmed let- ters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. For all other means of payment, the full set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria, must be submitted to the authorized dealer. Delivery of foreign exchange for a valid purchase (spot) order must take place within three working days of the date of the pur- chase contract. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on most payments for invisibles. Basic allowances are pro- vided for some payments. As with imports, verifica- tion is on an ex post basis—that is, depending on the payments arrangements, based on documentation obtained after the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is equivalent to $500 a year, and for business travel, equivalent to $5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets may be made in naira by residents. Hotels are allowed to accept settlement of hotel bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency from travelers to Nigeria, who are required to settle their bills and incidental expenses in foreign currency. However, when there is documentary evidence that an ade- quate amount of foreign currency has been exchanged into local currency at any licensed bank or bureau de change, payment in local currency must be accepted in settlement of hotel bills by foreign visitors to Nigeria. Remittances abroad by expatri- ate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are considered by authorized dealers subject to documentation requirements. Final balance appli- cations involving the transfer of accumulated sav- ings are considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of domestic currency in excess of N 100 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or that have been used) in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 377 conditions. Exports of beans, rawhide and skins, raw palm kernel, cassava, maize, rice, yam tubers, prod- ucts derived from these seven product items, and exports of all imported food items are prohibited. Exports of unrefined gold and petroleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corpo- ration and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector exports may be sold freely to the receiving bank or retained in domiciliary accounts; all previous require- ments for surrender to the Central Bank were abol- ished, with effect from September 29,1986. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes only, foreign currency imports of the equivalent of $1,000 and more must be declared. The importation of domestic currency in excess of N 100, which is intended to assist resi- dents to settle expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria, is prohibited. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are approved by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development subject to satisfactory doc- umentation, and transfers are effected through the FEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled cor- porations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contract- ing of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or com- pany, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permis- sion is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nige- rian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, January 1977, and January 1989. Nonresidents intend- ing to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consider- ation will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Remittable dividends may be reinvested without the requirement that matching capital must be imported. However, the granting of approved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not appli- cable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, bank credit, or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned companies and banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee deals with all matters relating to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through authorized foreign exchange dealers are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and approved subject to documentation requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the FEM. In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt-conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Con- version Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments at a discount and the disposition of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 NIGERIA naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commercial banks was completed in early 1989, additional instru- ments representing debt to commercial banks were made eligible for the debt-conversion provisions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign exchange used to acquire the instruments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange purchases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a g if t /grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; and (3) con- version for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and deter- mines eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are the follow- ing: (1) interest income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved projects under the DCP may not be repa- triated for a minimum period of five years from the date of release of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/divi- dends are made or paid, whichever is later; and (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the pro- gram may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective investment of the pro- ceeds; repatriation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Min- istry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the impor- tation of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 5. The official foreign exchange system, under which the Central Bank sold foreign exchange to authorized foreign exchange dealers through a weekly auction, was replaced by an inter- bank system, under which the official exchange rate of the naira would be freely determined in the inter- bank market. The Central Bank would negotiate with authorized dealers to buy and sell foreign exchange at the prevailing market rate. Authorized banks are permitted to buy foreign exchange from any source and to sell it for authorized transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 5. Import duties on certain inputs for cement manufacturing were reduced to zero. Duty- free importation of completely knocked-down (CKD) components and spare parts (approved for local assemblers/manufacturers in the 1991 bud- get) was extended to 1994. Preshipment inspection was extended to imports of all containerized goods in excess of the equivalent of $1,000 in value. March 24. The following measures were to be in effect until December 31,1992: (1) the importation of medicine prescribed by physicians was permitted; (2) ad valorem customs duty rates on imported pas- senger vehicles were based on value-added rather than on cubic-capacity rating; (3) until December 31, 1992, all imported motor vehicles would be granted customs duty rebates of 90 percent; (4) the duty rate on fully assembled commercial vehicles was reduced from 15 percent to 5 percent; and (5) spare parts and CKD components for commercial and passenger vehicles were exempted from duty. October 22. The ban on wheat importation was temporarily lifted. Exports and Export Proceeds December 1. An export processing zone (first in the country), in which enterprises can produce export goods under preferential treatments, became operational. The incentives offered to both domestic and foreign enterprises would include exemptions from all taxes, levies, duties, and foreign exchange restrictions, including unrestricted remittances of profits and dividends. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The Norwegian authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Bank of Norway quotes daily the exchange rate of the krone against 18 other cur- rencies1 and the ECU for information purposes on the basis of the market rates. On December 31,1992, the middle rate quoted against the U.S. dollar was Nkr 6.9245 per US$1. Residents (Norwegian companies and private individuals) may freely enter into forward and interest rate contracts with Norwegian foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 11,1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Norway in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of For- eign Affa irs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Norway notified the Fund on July 21, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kro- ner in convertible krone accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Icelandic krona, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The main type of nonresident account is the con- vertible krone account, which may be held by resi- dents of all foreign countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other convertible krone accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of con- vertible currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other convertible krone accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any for- eign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents without restriction, but such accounts must be reported to the Bank of Norway2 Imports and Import Payments Imports of industrial goods do not require an import license, but all imports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and Iraq are prohibited. Certain textiles and gar- ments are subject to import licensing for surveil- lance purposes. Following Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tar- iffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements, which have been concluded with 19 textile suppliers. The agree- ments entered into under the current MFA are con- siderably more liberal than those that Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits. These quotas apply to all countries, and, for some of these products, import restrictions are imposed only seasonally. New and secondhand ships and certain categories of fishing vessels may be imported freely. 2 Residents may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks w i thout restriction. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 NORWAY The importation of radio remittance equipment, such as radio controls, is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecommunications in respect of fre- quency. The importation of a small number of goods is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and cer- tain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, phar- maceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Direct trade credits may be extended for import (and export) financing without a license from the Bank of Norway. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. There is no limit on how many (physical) means of payment a person may take out of Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 must be reported to the customs authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any coun- try against a declaration or a license. Exports to Iraq are prohibited. Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited, with the exception of medical supplies and certain food items. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than Nkr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition, the limit is Nkr 500, and for fish and fish products, Nkr 1,000. Proceeds from Invisibles There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange a person may bring into Norway, but bank notes exceeding the equivalent of Nkr 25,000 must be reported to the customs authorities. Capital Norwegian companies and private individuals are permitted to make direct investments abroad; direct investments in the form of share purchases must, however, be made through Norwegian stock- brokers. Securities subject to the stockbroker requirement and kept abroad must be deposited with a Norwegian bank or stockbroker. Foreign exchange banks, exposure-regulated financial insti- tutions, insurance companies, and stockbrokers dealing in foreign securities on their own account are exempt from the stockbroker and deposit requirements. However, foreign exchange banks and financial institutions subject to exposure regu- lation must submit reports on their net foreign cur- rency position to the Bank of Norway. Net positions of up to 10 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20 percent of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There is no limit on purchases by residents of for- eign currency bonds, and residents are permitted to purchase foreign bonds and certificates. Purchases of life insurance policies abroad by residents are prohibited. Nonresidents may purchase Norwegian bonds and certificates without restriction. There is no restriction on the importation into or exportation from Norway of securities. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jew- elry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coins are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent, except gold coins produced after January 1,1967. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement December 10. The Norwegian authorities aban- doned the peg to the ECU and allowed the external value of the krone to be determined by market forces. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 per US$2.6008. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1992, the rates were R O l p er US$2.5974 (buying) and RO 1 per US$2.6042 (selling). The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and commercial banking sectors. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19,1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Oman notified the Fund, on January 27, 1993, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) are prohibited, as is the use of their curren- cies. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, South Africa, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) are prohibited. Imports of a few commodi- ties are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the importation of fruits and vegetables that are grown locally. In addition, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products as long as the domestic refinery is deemed by Oman to be producing enough of them to satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for authorized imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, South Africa, and the Fed- eral Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montene- gro) are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel, South Africa, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or on payments by residents or non- residents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel, South Africa, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign nat- ural or juridical persons requires prior approval and is regulated by the Foreign Investment Law enacted in June 1983 and the Law for the Organization and Encouragement of Industry, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ventures are offered a five-year tax holiday, 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 OMAN renewable for an additional five years under certain conditions. The Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential inter- est rates for project financing in the petroleum, agri- cultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; it can also give assistance in preinvestment research. The direction of foreign capital to large production or manufacturing projects is encouraged. In addition, the Government provides loans at subsidized inter- est rates for those projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial produc- tion for exportation, industrial production using indigenous raw materials or labor, or the develop- ment of tourism. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of customs duties or taxes. Transactions involving Israel, South Africa, or the Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of December 31 ,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan sets the daily rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 31, 1992, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 25.70 and PRs 25.8285, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 25.7000 and PRs 26.7923, respectively, per US$1; the buying and selling rates forward up to 12 months were PRs 24.9270 and PRs 27.7560, respectively, per US$1. All foreign exchange transactions with the pub- lic must be conducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.50 percent is provided on the previous day's clos- ing buying and selling rates for the currency con- cerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of the member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) for exports and imports effected under that arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover for private foreign cur- rency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as for for- eign currency loans under the pay-as-you-earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and interna- tional markets; the annual rates of the fee for differ- ent currencies are as follows: deutsche mark, 5 percent; Japanese yen, 7.4 percent; pounds ster- ling, 5 percent; Swiss francs, 5.81 percent; and U.S. dollars, 6.85 percent. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign cur- rency loans for working capital requirements is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee in U.S. dollars based on the difference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the interest rate pay- able on the loan; the rate of the fee has been at 7.5 percent since October 29, 1990. In July 1992, the State Bank began charging a 3 percent fee on its for- eign exchange swaps. Residents and nonresidents may use foreign ex- change to purchase foreign exchange bearer certif- icates (FEBCs) with a maturity of up to five years denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, or Pakistan rupees. FEBCs are available in various denominations (deutsche mark, from DM 100 to DM 100,000; Jap- anese yen, from ¥ 10,000 to ¥ 10 million; pounds sterling, from £ 100 to £ 50,000; and U.S. dollars, from $100 to $100,000). They may be freely brought into and taken out of the country, may be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in for- eign exchange at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the encashment, and may be used by residents to undertake any current or international capital transactions. At the end of 1992, the rates of return on the five-year certificate in different cur- rencies were as follows: deutsche mark, 9.50 per- cent; Japanese yen, 8.25 percent; pounds sterling, 9.25 percent; and U.S. dollars, 8.00 percent. FEBCs denominated in U.S. dollars (DBCs) with a matu- rity of one year are also available. Anyone may purchase them without revealing the source of for- eign exchange and may encash the accrued returns either in foreign exchange or in Pakistan rupees at the official rate. At the end of 1992, the return on these certificates was 0.25 percent above LIBOR. FEBCs denominated in Pakistan rupees are avail- able in denominations ranging from PRs 500 to PRs 100,000; their face value is 15 percent higher one year a f ter issuance, 31 percent higher af ter two years, 52 percent higher a f ter three years, 74 per- cent higher af ter four years, 99 percent higher after five years, and 131 percent higher after six years. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for certain pur- poses within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PAKISTAN responsible for issuing licenses and permits, as well as for implementing import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation of Paki- stan, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees to or from nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Paki- stan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the ACU (Bangladesh, India, Islamic Repub- lic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions are effected through the ACU in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel or South Africa are suspended. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents of Pakistan are allowed to open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs) with banks in Pakistan on the same basis as nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, foreign currency notes, and pro- ceeds from FEBCs, including DBCs. Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from services of resi- dents; earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistani firms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of w i thdrawa l. These accounts may be permanently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to three years) is fixed by the State Bank with the approval of the Government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates range from 3/4 of 1 percent for three-month deposits to 15/s percent for three-year deposits. Nonresident accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for non- bank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for speci- fied purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open FCAs may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the curren- cies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistani nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts perma- nently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $10 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments Annual Import Policy Orders (IPOs) outline the regulations that apply to imports. IPOs divide imports into two categories: prohibited and nega- tive imports, and restricted imports. All items that do not appear on either list may be freely imported. Different rules app ly to the nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 385 The prohibited and negative lists in principle con- sist of items banned for religious and health reasons as well as to discourage the consumption of luxury items; capital and consumer goods banned tempo- rarily for protective reasons; intermediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and con- sumer goods banned for protective reasons; and goods banned in accordance with international agreements.2 The IPO's restricted list of imports for 1991-92 consisted of three categories: (1) 7 items or categories of goods that could be imported only by the public sector; (2) 11 items or categories of goods that could be imported only by industrial consumers; and (3) 27 items or categories of goods that could be imported only if certain requirements were met, such as a per- mit by a public sector agency or fulfillment of techni- cal specifications. In the 1992 Import Policy Order, 4 items (acetone, acetyl, chloride ethylidene, and asbestos) were added to the list of goods that may be imported only by industrial consumers. The nega- tive list currently includes 80 items. Some items on the negative list may be imported under certain cir- cumstances, principally by export industries, public sector agencies, or under the personal baggage scheme. Import licenses are not required for freely import- able items. Importers of these items can approach banks directly to open letters of credit and at the same time pay the 6 percent import license fee (pre- viously collected by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports). Other imports require a license, with the following exceptions: goods imported by the cen- tral Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items per- mitted under notification from the Ministry of Com- merce. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification from the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.3 Generally, licenses are valid for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufactured, they may be valid for up to 24 months. Import licenses are subject to a fee of 6 percent of the value of the license, pay- able at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of 2 Some-of the currently prohibited imports fa ll outside these categories ( that is, some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, health, or luxu ry consumption reasons). 3 Licensing restrictions apply only to arms and ammunition. goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. Both the private sector and the public sector may import 570 specified items or categories of goods directly from India. (2) Spe- cial provisions govern the importation by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. (3) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 45,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organi- zations. (4) The maximum c. & f. values for which licenses for the importation of machinery and millwork can be issued against various sources of financing to d ifferent categories are (a) up to PRs 30 million for commercial importers; and (b) up to PRs 150 million for new units or expan- sion of existing units, other than spinning and weaving units falling within the specified list of industries (i.e., those that are permitted to be set up without the sanction of any government agency).4 The limit of PRs 150 million applies to units falling within certain industries, but the units must be sanctioned by the appropriate authority; (c) up to PRs 30 million for balancing, modernization, and replacement of existing units, excluding the textile industry; and (d) from PRs 15 million to PRs 150 million for balancing, modern- ization, and replacement of a textile unit, depend- ing on the type and capacity of the machinery. Procurement of plant and equipment of higher value not falling under a specified list of indus- tries and having less than 50 percent foreign equity may be under taken by financing institu- tions with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Imports are permitted against either letters of credit or contracts. (1) For licenses issued against cash, letters of credit must be established or an import contract must be registered on a consign- ment basis with a bank no more than 180 days after the license is registered with the State Bank; if these conditions are not met, the license will be deemed to have expired. (The 180-day limit may be changed in the case of import licenses for items specifically exempted by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.) (2) For licenses issued against loans or credits, letters of credit must be established no more than 180 days af ter the license is issued except as provided for in Clause VI of Paragraph 2.7 of the IPO. For imports under barter, the time limit for opening letters of credit is specified in the relevant 4 Industries on the specified list include arms and ammuni- tion; security printing, currency and other minted items; high explosives; and radioactive substances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PAKISTAN public notice issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. (3) For imports under tied loans or credits, which require the contracts to be approved by the Government of Pakistan, the importer must submit the contract no more than 120 days after the license is issued and must open a letter of credit no more than 60 days after the con- tract is given final approval; if these conditions are not met, the license will be deemed to have expired. Oil and natural gas exploration and producing companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the importation of crude oil and petro- leum products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases —for example, machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers —the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remittances, without the prior approval of the State Bank, for books, magazines, and journals imported by commercial importers. Payments are not permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel. The maximum tar iff, currently 80 percent, is not applicable to imports of automobiles of over 1,000 cc and to a limited number of other items. The 1992/93 budget simplified the structure of import taxation by incorporating the 10 percent import sur- charge into the basic tariff schedule. In addition, imports are also subject to an Iqra surcharge of 5 percent ad valorem and a license fee of 6 percent. A number of items, including medicine, books, fer- tilizer, certain accompanied baggage, kerosene, light diesel, and fuel oil, are exempt from the sur- charges. The elements of surcharges paid on imported raw materials for manufactures of export goods are also included in the duty drawback paid on such exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Africa. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, trans- port insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maxi- mum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton, for which the maximum is 1 percent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other textile made-ups, carpets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33 Vs percent. The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and airline business does not require the approvaL of the State Bank. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to $1,000 a person every two years for private travel to countries other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and India irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;5 this allocation may be used in installments. In addition to this quota, each traveler is allowed $50 a trip. Remittances for undergraduate studies abroad and correspondence courses are unrestricted. Foreign exchange for business travel, medical treat- ment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for tuition fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the State Bank. Allowances for professional training abroad range from $750 a month for junior executives to $1,200 a month for senior executives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable business travel allowance of $200 a day up to $6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FEBCs. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or $750 a month, whichever is larger; Pakistani nationals are not allowed to make remittances abroad for family maintenance purposes. 5 The allowances for travel to Bangladesh and India are less; there is no such allowance for travel to A fghan is tan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 387 Persons leaving Pakistan (foreigners and Paki- stani nationals) may take out with them foreign cur- rency without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.6 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (e.g., maize, gram, split gram, and camels), quality controls (such as batter- ies, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (e.g., raw cotton and onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., is responsible for the exportation of cotton, although the private sector has also been allowed into the export trade. Cotton is exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; Basmati and other rice are exported through the Rice Exportation Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., but private traders are also allowed. Cement, which may be exported by public and private sector enti- ties, is subject to a quota. Chemical fertilizers may also be exported by private sector units. Trade sam- ples that may be exported without prior approval from the State Bank are limited to the equivalent of $1,000; the limit for leather garments is 50 pieces, without a value limit. The State Bank requires a declaration from the exporter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the prescribed time except for goods manufactured in the export processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for ship- ment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Under the Export Processing Unit (EPU) scheme, selected industries, raw materials, intermediate goods used for the manufacturing of exports, imports of machinery, and components not manufactured locally are exempt from the payment of import duties and 6 Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (excluding iron and steel manufac tured goods), edible oils, grains, gur, sari and jaggary powder, certain dairy products, cer- tain live animals, animal fats, beef, mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cow- hides and calfhides, wheat straw, charcoal, pepper, certain ani- mal products, intoxicants, certain seeds, wooden crates, arms, ammunition, explosives, fissionable material, maps and charts, paper waste, unfinished hockey sticks and blades, h um an skele- tons, all imported goods, and antiques. local taxes.7 The export-output ratio required to qual- ify for the EPU scheme is 50 percent in the first two years and 60 percent in the third year and beyond. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items8 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. However, the State Bank is phasing out its outstand- ing stock of concessional loans to the export sector (currently amounting to PRs 20.4 billion). Under the new system, the State Bank refinances 75 percent of the outstanding stock of the preceding year and places an amount of export finance provided by the lending bank exceeding the remainder in a blocked account in favor of the lending bank. Interest is paid on the account at the average weighted treasury bill rate from the last auction. The amount refinanced by the State Bank will be eliminated over the next four years. Rebates of 25 percent and 50 percent are available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of semifinished goods and finished goods, respectively, that are manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering products, garments, leather and leather products, textile products, and hand- knotted carpets and rugs, the rate of rebate is 75 percent; the rebate rate on engineering goods is 90 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize a maximum of 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of exports for pay- ments of foreign exchange obligations in respect of royalties, technical fees, and incidental charges. Under the Open Bond Manufacturing Scheme, raw materials and intermediate goods imported or pur- chased locally and used for manufacturing for exports are exempt from import duties and local 7 The selected industries included are textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemi- cals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furn i ture, sporting goods, surgical instruments, and cutlery. The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feedstuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; crude fertil- izer; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc.; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared form. 9 Under specified conditions, authorized dealers may grant concessional finance, without the State Bank's approval, against an irrevocable letter of credit or a firm export order. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PAKISTAN taxes. At present, the following industries are cov- ered by this scheme: textiles and clothing (other than spinning), leather and leather manufactures, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, engineering and electronics, ceramics, furniture, sporting goods, and surgical instruments. Export duties are levied on raw cotton, cotton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, raw hides and skins, and onyx blocks. The exportation of cows and calves is banned. Exporters who are members of export houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promotion and related costs. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, foreign exchange earned from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 500 a person in Pakistan currency notes from India; the limit for other sources is PRs 3,000 a person for bank notes. There is no limit on the importation of other cur- rency notes and coins, except coins that are legal tender in India; these coins may be imported only up to the value of Rs (Indian) 5 a person at a time. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promo- tion expenses. Capital Approval from the Government is required for the establishment of industries in the following areas: (1) arms and ammunition; (2) printing of securities and currency, and mint; (3) high explo- sives; and (4) radioactive substance (investments in these areas by domestic investors are also subject to approval). Currently, the Foreign Private Investment (Pro- motion and Protection) Act of 1976 does not guar- antee repatriation of capital for investments undertaken before September 1954. These invest- ments are regulated by the terms and conditions governing each investment. Amendments to these provisions are under consideration. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may reg- ister their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions may be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on out- ward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents must be approved by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nation- ality of the person and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals tempo- rarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of transfers of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issuance, sale, or transfer of Pakistani secu- rities, in favor of nonresident Pakistanis, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securities held by nonresident for- eign nationals may be transferred to other nonresi- dent foreign nationals against payments abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. General permission has been granted to public limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to issue or transfer shares on a repatriable basis to a nonresi- dent Pakistani national, a person with two national- ities (including Pakistani), a foreign national, or a company incorporated outside Pakistan (excluding branches in Pakistan of such companies and a com- pany owned or controlled by a foreign govern- ment), provided that the issue price or purchase price as certified by a stock exchange broker is paid in foreign exchange either through a remittance of foreign currency from abroad or out of a foreign currency account maintained by the subscriber in Pakistan. Permission is not required for exports of share certificates by companies whose shares can be issued or transferred in favor of nonresidents cov- ered by the general authority granted by the State Bank. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets not covered by repatria- tion arrangements must be credited to nonresident accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities pay- able in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan may underwrite share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan, provided that the total value of shares in each issue does not exceed 30 percent of the capi- tal offered to the general public for subscription or 30 percent of its own paid-up capital and reserve, whichever is less. The foreign banks may also underwrite public issues of participation term cer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 389 tificates, term finance certificates, and modaraba cer- tificates, provided that where terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to con- vert the securities into ordinary shares, the restric- tion of 30 percent of the total capital offered to the general public would also apply. Pakistani nationals residing abroad may invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remitting for- eign exchange or by debiting their foreign currency accounts in Pakistan; dividends, as well as the pro- ceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, pro- vided that tax, if applicable, is paid. Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatri- ated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank; such permission is not usually granted. Pakistani nationals coming from abroad are allowed to import up to 100 troy ounces of gold a person on each visit. Similarly, individual firms or companies who are residents of Pakistan are allowed to import up to 500 troy ounces at a time. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement May 1. The rate of return on FEBCs was raised to 15 percent a year from 14.5 percent. June 7. The commercial banks were required to surrender foreign currency deposits to the State Bank in a swap arrangement, with the swap period corre- sponding to the initial maturity of these deposits. Free full-forward exchange cover to financial institu- tions in respect of these deposits was phased out in June, and a fee of 3 percent a year was introduced. Imports and Import Payments July 1. In the 1992 IPO, 4 items (acetone, acetyl, chloride ethylidene, and asbestos) were added to the list of goods that may be imported only by industrial consumers. As a result, the restricted list contained 45 items: 8 categories of goods that may be imported only by the public sector; 11 categories of goods that may be imported only by industrial consumers (previously, 7 categories); and 26 catego- ries of goods subject to specified requirements (such as a permit by a public sector agency or ful- fillment of a technical specification). The ban on imports from South Africa was lifted. July I. The maximum import tariff rate was low- ered to 80 percent from 90 percent. The maximum tariff would not be applicable to imports of auto- mobiles of over 1,000 cc, tobacco products, and a limited number of other imports. The 1992/93 bud- get simplified the structure of import taxation by incorporating the 10 percent import surcharge into the basic tariff schedule along with the correspond- ing downward adjustment in the import schedule to 80 percent. July 1. Twenty-one categories of goods were removed from the negative list, leaving 74 categories. August 15. Spinning machinery was excluded from the purview of commercial imports against cash. August 24. Benzidine and its derivative H.S. No. 2921.5900 were placed on the negative list. September 13. (1) Motorcar taxis ranging from 800 cc to 1,600 cc that run on gasoline and 2,000 cc taxis that run on diesel were allowed to be imported under the Revamping of Public Transport Scheme and were exempted from Import Trade Control Regulations without the cover of an import license; (2) air-condi- tioned commuter vans with 12 to 22 seats were allowed to be imported in accordance with the Revamping of Public Transport Scheme. October 14. Motorcars and other motor vehicles, including station wagons and racing cars, princi- pally designed to transport people, hitherto import- able by units under the Ministry of Production would be allowed to be imported in knocked-down condition by the recognized assemblers. November 28. Large agricultural tractors of stan- dardized makes were permitted to be imported. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The export-output ratio required to qualify for the EPU scheme was lowered from a fixed 70 percent to an initial 50 percent in the first two years and 60 percent subsequently. August 1. The State Bank began phasing out its outstanding stock of concessional loans to the export sector (amounting to PRs 19.5 billion). Under the new system, the State Bank would refi- nance 75 percent of the outstanding stock of the preceding year and place the remainder in a blocked account in favor of the lending bank, on which return would be paid at the rate equal to the weighted average treasury bill rate from the last auction. The amount refinanced would be elimi- nated over the next four years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is limited to coins and several commemorative coins in small denominations. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Panama formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 26,1946. Administration of Control In general, import or export licenses are not required. Only a few products are banned or require special import permits. Individuals or com- panies engaged in import activities require a com- mercial or industry license, which is issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI). Spe- cific export licenses are required for products that are subject to export taxes and for certain other goods; these licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The MICI, through the Pan- ama Trade Development Institute, is responsible for determining all aspects of agreements on free trade and bilateral preferential treatment with countries in the region. Panama has bilateral trade agree- ments with Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Under an agreement with Mexico, 70 products may be exported from Panama to Mexico. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MIDA) and the Agricultural Marketing Institute (IMA), through various product-specific commissions, determine the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. There are no quantitative restrictions on indus- trial products, but import quotas, established by the MIDA and the IMA, are maintained on some fifty- five products in the agricultural sector and agro- industries, including timber, salt, rice, onions, fish- meal, milk, and sugar. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. The tariff schedule is based on the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN). Most tariff rates are on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. For some products, the tax is specific and is calculated on the basis of weight (per kilo). In cases where both tax rates are stated, the applicable rate is the one that produces the higher tax revenue. If the tax is spe- cific, an additional tax of 7.5 percent on the c.i.f. value of imports is charged, except for (1) specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the additional tax rates are 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; and (2) books and certain agricultural inputs, which are du ty free. Many local industries are protected by tariffs aimed at promot- ing local and export industries. Exemptions from import and customs duties on equipment, machin- ery, and spare parts apply mainly to export-ori- ented industries, and to industries concentrating on the local market, provided that certain conditions are met. A tariff reform program involving reduc- tions in tariff ceilings and conversion of specific tar- iffs to ad valorem rates was implemented in August 1991 and is expected to be completed in 1993. All imports into the Colon Free Zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of firearms and ammunition are prohibited. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost of production content of 20 percent) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20 percent of value added. Proceeds from exports are not subject to exchange control. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 391 Any product (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Colon Free Zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and re-exported without being subject to customs procedures. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on tickets purchased for travel starting in Panama. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by resi- dents and nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Some foreign-controlled banks are autho- rized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with res- idents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses, by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments July 14. The importation of oil and oil products was liberalized but was subject to a tariff at the rate of 20 percent; importation by the oil refinery oper- ating in Panama was exempted from the tar iff. The tariff rate would be reduced by 1 percent a year until it reached the level of 5 percent. September 15. Quantitative restrictions on the importation of rice were abolished and replaced by a minimum import price (which is considerably above the international price) plus an import tariff at the rate of 90 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major trading partners. On Decem- ber 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.0186 and US$1.0151, respec- tively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only au- thorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between the buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Under the current forward exchange market regu- lations, exporters and importers can hedge exchange rate risk by selling foreign exchange forward to or buying foreign exchange forward from the commer- cial banks. Commercial banks are permitted to pro- vide forward cover for export proceeds for up to six months at a premium of V2 of 1 percent a year and cover for import payments for up to nine months at a premium of 1 percent a year. The commercial banks, in turn, hedge their forward positions with firms through forward deals with the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Under this arrangement, the Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the daily forward rates both for its own transactions with authorized dealers and for dealers' transactions with firms. Major mineral exporters use other means of hedging their exchange rate risk, and the forward market is usually domi- nated by importers. The Bank of Papua New Guinea normally has a net forward liability to authorized dealers that covers its net forward liability to firms. Authorized dealers are also permitted to hedge their forward purchases and sales in the normal manner through their balance sheets. Under the current arrangement, the forward market is effectively sepa- rated from the spot market. Forward rates do not reflect interest rate differentials between Papua New Guinea and other countries. The Bank of Papua New Guinea sets the forward rates without regard to interest rates and assumes all the risks of the forward contracts. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4,1975. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Banking (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Papua New Guinea notified the Fund on July 22, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a for- eign currency must be met by payments in foreign currency1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Authorized foreign exchange dealers (at present, the five commercial banks) may open and maintain foreign currency accounts and foreign currency term deposits in Papua New Guinea for residents and nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security and to protect domestic markets. Imports of a number of items, including canned meat, sugar, pork, chicken and hens, fowls, certain fresh fruits and vegetables, and matches, are prohibited to protect domestic markets. A number of items, including laundry bar 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 393 soap, plywood, and specified fruits and vegetables (e.g., broccoli, cauliflower, garlic, and celery), are subject to import quotas and may be imported only through specified ports of entry; temperate fruits and onions are subject to a nationwide import quota. Other items, including poultry other than chicken, hens, or fowls and reconstituted wood products, require licenses that are issued on a quar- terly basis. Quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for two- or three-year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with purchases of domestically produced goods. Authorized dealers may, without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea, approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or licensing requirements. The tariff regime consists of the following: (1) essential items, including food staples (rice, and canned fish and meat that is not produced domestically), and medical and educa- tional supplies, duty-free; (2) basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials, 5-9 per- cent; (3) intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic substitutes, 25-30 percent; and (4) luxury goods, including television sets, jewelry, cosmetics, cameras, video recorders, and nonessen- tial food and beverage items, 50-75 percent. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily granted for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation is produced. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for any purpose for all adult individuals or corporations. Payments and transfers in excess of the equivalent of K 500,000, except payments for the servicing of foreign debt, must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for approval. Payments for the servicing of foreign debt may be approved without a fixed limit by authorized dealers. For payments or transfers exceeding the equivalent of K 50,000 a year, a certifi- cate of tax payment is required. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 2 00 in notes and K5 in coins; however, domestic coins issued for numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any cur- rency they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on the condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payments for goods exported must be received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds must be sold to the Bank of Papua New Guinea or an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the gen- eral authority, they must apply to the Bank for spe- cific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for specified types of goods (for example, logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, woodchips, sandalwood, rat- tan, coffee, cocoa, and copra) under the Export (Val- uation and Control) Act. Log export licenses are issued subject to minimum export price guidelines. There is no export license requirement on timber. Although exports of most unprocessed products are subject to export levies, these have been tempo- rarily waived, except those on fishery and forestry products, owing to the continued weakness in pri- mary commodity prices. A 15 percent export tax is levied on all logs, and the exportation of more valu- able species of timber in log form is banned. Fish exports are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer in Papua New Guinea or for its reten- tion. Residents are not permitted to retain foreign exchange earnings from any source without the approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Over- seas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenses. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital (that is, proceeds from liquidation of direct invest- ments) are normally allowed. Direct investments outside Papua New Guinea are subject to certain limitations. Authorized dealers may approve out- ward investments by resident individuals and cor- porations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year. Income from the investment must be returned to Papua New Guinea as received, and details of investments held and income received must be sub- mitted annually to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is required for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 10,000 in any calendar year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Permission is required for residents to enter into an agreement to borrow in foreign currencies. How- ever, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve offshore foreign currency borrowing by residents, other than businesses involved in min- eral resources exploration, up to a maximum limit equivalent to K 5 million, provided that the term of the borrowing is for a period of not less than three years and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels specified by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Repayment of principal is subject to a six- month moratorium, commencing on the date of dis- bursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to net outstanding borrowing of up to the equivalent of K 5 million; the maximum debt-to- equity ratio for net aggregate borrowing in excess of the equivalent of K 5 million is determined by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. In the case of a business involved in mineral resource exploration activities, inward investment is considered non- interest-bearing equity or loan funds (including preference shares) until the business is successful, at which point any excess above the minimum equity-to-debt ratio specified for that operation can be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Authorized dealers may approve applications for inward direct investment and for inward portfolio investment, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed K 500,000 a year. Applications for larger investments must be referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Gold Dealings in gold in Papua New Guinea are not regulated. Sales of alluvial gold are subject to a 5 percent export tax. Individuals are not permitted to import or export gold. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles November 20. The procedures for the approval of payments for invisibles were substantially simpli- fied. Under the new regulations, authorized foreign exchange dealers may approve invisibles payments and transfers for amounts up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for a resident for any purpose. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The two-year ban on the issuance of per- mits for timber operations introduced on July 1, 1990 expired and was not renewed. Capital November 20. Regulations governing overseas borrowing by residents were liberalized. Under the new regulations, authority to approve new foreign currency borrowing of up to a maximum amount of K 5 million equivalent for a resident was delegated to authorized foreign exchange dealers, and the maximum debt-to-equity ratio for borrowers was raised to 5:1 from 3:1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. Although the Central Bank of Paraguay intervenes when necessary to smooth out undesir- able fluctuations, it does not interfere with underly- ing market trends. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Private and public transactions in respect of merchandise imports and exports, ser- vices, and private capital transactions are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses. On December 31, 1992, the aver- age rate prevailing in this market was (3 1,620 per US$1. Public debt-service payments and payments for government services are channeled through the Central Bank at the rate prevailing on the day of the transaction. No commissions are assessed on these transactions if debtors have foreign exchange on deposit with the Central Bank. The commercial banks are not required to trans- fer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank but must maintain a daily net position equivalent to no more than 50 percent of their capital and reserves. They are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank for statistical purposes. Commercial banks are per- mitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. Administration of Control The Central Bank has the authority, under the constitution, to determine foreign exchange policy in consultation with other technical agencies within the Government; in practice, decisions are taken by the Economic Cabinet on the advice of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is responsible for the execu- tion of the decisions of the Economic Cabinet. The Central Bank supervises, through the Superinten- dency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions car- ried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing arrangements of the Latin American Integration Association. Clearing takes place every four months. There are no other pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products require authorization from the appropriate agency, depending on the product imported. These include table wine in bulk, natural grape concentrate, rice in the husk or pro- cessed in any way, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kero- sene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest seasons. Imports of most petroleum and petroleum products are made through the National Petroleum Com- pany, Petropar. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) and aviation fuel may be imported by the private sector. All importers must be registered at the Central Bank. A tax ranging up to 35 percent is levied on most imports depending on the customs specifications, which are based on the Brussels Nomenclature. The tariff regime is as follows: zero tax on inputs, 5 per- cent on capital goods, and 10 percent on consumer goods, except automobiles, on which two addi- tional rates of 15 percent and 20 percent are applied. Banks collect the tax at the time of delivery of docu- ments for customs clearance or when the import payments are made, whichever is earlier. The fol- lowing are the principal import items exempt from tariffs: imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; imports for the Government (until December 31, 1992); furniture acquired through inheritance; all imports exempted accord- ing to international treaties; the accompanied bag- gage of international passengers or nationals returning to establish residence in Paraguay; books and periodicals; and imports under Decree Law No. 60/90. Until December 31, 1992, certain imports to be used by the tourism industry located in the border cities of Ciudad del Este, Pedro Juan Caballero, and Encarnacion were taxed at 8 percent. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 PARAGUAY The duty on these imports were raised to 10 percent on January 1,1993. As a member of the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), which came into effect at the end of November 1991, Paraguay has scheduled the elimination of all trade barriers with Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay by December 31, 1995. The July 1992 tariff reform put Paraguay ahead of the schedule of tariff reductions required by MERCO- SUR. Special protective rates of 3 percent to 35 per- cent are levied on 439 tariff categories, which have been exempted from the schedule of tariff reduc- tions required under MERCOSUR; the list of exemp- tions will be reduced to 281 tariff categories when Brazil and Uruguay present their proposal for reducing their lists of exempted categories. Imports of a number of products that might jeop- ardize national security, public order, or public health are prohibited. Import restrictions may be imposed to protect the domestic industry from unfair competition. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to lift import restrictions on basic food- stuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic produc- tion shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Imports of a wide range of basic items of consumption were pro- hibited until December 31,1992. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are carried out through the authorized commercial banks or exchange houses without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. A 10 percent value-added tax is levied on interna- tional transport tickets; the tax base is 25 percent of the price of tickets issued in the country Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited as are exports of rawhides, livestock, horses, wild ani- mals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. Certain other exports require prior authorization from the appro- priate agency to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certifi- cate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, depending on the product exported. The temporary export levies introduced in 1989 were not reintroduced in 1992. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents and sold to authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows from the binational entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travel- ers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the commercial banks or exchange houses. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free exchange market. Under Decree Law No. 60/90, the Government grants exemptions from taxes, cus- toms, and import surcharges to proposed invest- ments that are duly registered and approved. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that residents may hold; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. The exportation and importation of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; pay- ments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments June 24. A new tariff law (Decree No. 14.003/92) reduced the dispersion, level, and number of tariffs applicable to imports. Three main tariff levels— 3 percent on inputs, 5 percent on capital goods, and 10 percent on consumer goods—were established. Automobiles were subject to rates of 15 percent and 20 percent, depending on their value. A reduced rate of 8 percent on selected imports to be used by the tourist industry located in the border cities of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 397 Ciudad del Este, Pedro Juan Caballero, and Encar- nacion would be applied until the end of 1992; beginning January 1, 1993, goods would be subject to a 10 percent tar iff. The import ban on a list of goods including dairy products, oil, cement, iron, cocoa, corn, wheat, and rice was abolished. Most tariff exemptions were eliminated. Exemptions were to remain for public sector imports (until December 31, 1992), inherited goods, and house- hold goods brought back by Paraguayan nationals after living abroad for a minimum of two years. July 10. The tariff on inputs was removed. The ban on imports of a broad list of agricultural and livestock products was reinstated for 180 days. Exemptions from tariff for public sector imports were reinstated until December 31,1992. July 16. Special protective rates ranging from 3 percent to 35 percent were levied on 439 catego- ries of products, which had been exempted from the schedule of tariff reductions required under MERCOSUR. These exemptions would be eliminated by the end of 1995. Payments for Invisibles July 1. A 10 percent value-added tax was levied on international transport tickets (Decree No. 13.424/ 92); the tax base would be 25 percent of the total price of the tickets issued in the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Nuevo Sol, the external value of which is freely determined by participants in the exchange market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. On December 31,1992, the aver- age interbank transaction rate, as determined by the Superintendency of Banking, was S/. 1.63 per US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in 15 currencies other than the U.S. dollar on the basis of their cross-rate relationship in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market.1 Enterprises and natural persons were given per- mission during 1991 to hold foreign exchange bal- ances abroad. There are arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the commercial banking sector. Bank accounts in for- eign currencies may be held with domestic banks. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control Exchange houses are authorized to purchase for- eign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the External Debt Committee. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC). Moreover, as of January 1983, enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to the GDPC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mex- ico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods are prohibited from all sources for social, health, or security reasons. No other imports are restricted. Imports of raw materi- als and intermediate goods are exempted from import duties, provided that the appropriate minis- try determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime.2 All monopolies on the importation of goods have been abolished, including the restrictions that milk powder and wheat may be imported only by the National Enter- prise for Input Marketing, and that crude petro- leum and petroleum derivatives may be imported only by PETROPERU a state-owned enterprise. With some specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 16 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to the import duty; exempted from the value-added tax are some agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centime- ters). The maximum rate of import tariff is 25 percent ad valorem. Advance payments for all imports are allowed without restriction. Legislation has been enacted requiring pre-inspection at the port of embarkation by international firms. Prescription of Currency Payments for Invisibles All exchange market operations must be effected in 1 of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but 1 For external trade transactions, Belgian francs, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs; nontrade transactions may also be effected in Aus- trian schillings, Canad ian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. Payments for almost all invisibles other than public debt service are not subject to payments authorization. Remittances of net profits require a prior tax clearance. Foreign investment by petroleum compa- 2 Since Janua ry 1, 1993, minerals, fuels, and medicines have been excluded from the list of exempted products. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 399 nies is subject to special contracts with the Peruvian Government. Quantitative limits on the sale of foreign exchange for business travel abroad, tourist travel abroad, education allowances, family maintenance, and medical treatment were removed in 1991. Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cottonseed cakes, natural rubber, and mineral ores. Exports of gold are no longer prohibited. State enterprise monopolies in the exportation of mining and petroleum products were eliminated in 1991. Traditional exports must be financed against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed mainly by a bank established in Peru. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Capital There are no restrictions on outward capital transfers, including amortization of private sector debts, that are not publicly guaranteed. Short-term trade credits that have not been sub- ject to a refinancing agreement or assumed by the Government are to be rolled over beginning August 1, 1993. Other short-term trade credits may be repaid in accordance with bilateral agreements concluded before June 1992 or through renegotia- tion after that date with the approval of the Exter- nal Debt Committee. New foreign investments must be registered with the National Commission on Foreign Investment and Technology. Foreign companies incorporated in Peru may benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement under the same conditions as domestic enterprises. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the Final Mining Law of April 1993. The Government may grant tax incentives to mining concessionaires (initiating large-scale investment programs) and guarantee availability of foreign exchange under prescribed conditions. Under the Private Sector Investment Guarantee Regime, the Government guarantees nondiscrimi- natory treatment for foreign investors and private enterprises, protection of property rights, the devel- opment of any economic activities, free internal and external trade, and capital repatriation. In addition investors may enter into contracts that guarantee tax stability, nondiscriminatory treatment, foreign currency availability, capital repatriation, free labor contracts, and export incentives. Gold The exportation and importation of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments February 23. Powdered milk and butter were added to the list of goods subject to a specific ta r i f f. February 23. The importation of used machinery and equipment for industrial use, motor vehicles and parts, and transport equipment was permitted. February 24. Import duties were allowed to be paid at authorized banks. March 25. Specific ta r i f fs on wheat, corn, rice, sor- ghum, flour, semolina, sugar, and pasta were replaced by flexible ad valorem surcharges; as a result, the range of duties was reduced to 5- 16 percent from 8-64 percent. March 27. The number of goods subject to a sur- charge was reduced from 33 to 16, and the rate of surcharge was raised to the pre-March 23 level. May 26. New equipment used in productive pro- cesses, except transport vehicles, was allowed to be imported temporarily by private enterprises. May 27. The rate of customs duties on goods val- ued at less than $5,000 and imported through the airport at Callao was limited to 30 percent. Donated goods, imports by foreign diplomats, and imports in transit were exempted. June 6. Decrees reducing specific tariffs and estab- lishing surcharges based on percentages of the import reference price were abolished (see March 25 and March 28 entries above). July 21. The customs tar iffs on accessories for motorcycles and bicycles were reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent. July 25. The importation of ammonia nitrate was restricted to the Empresa Public de Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A. (FERTISA). July 31. The tariff rates on insecticides, fungi- cides, herbicides, and disinfectants were reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent. October 20. A 10 percent surcharge was imposed on wheat and sorghum. October 21. All restrictions on imports of used goods except shoes and clothes were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 PERU December 11. Mining enterprises were allowed to import ammonia nitrate, provided they have a daily production capacity of at least 1,000 tons. tax payments they had made when purchasing Die- sel 2 and gasoline. Payments for Invisibles Capital December 24. The tax of $30 on travel abroad was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds June 4. Exports of mining products would no longer require special authorization. October 15. Nontraditional exporters were per- mitted to deduct from tax obligations consumption October 12. A Decree on the Private Sector Invest- ment Guarantee Regime was promulgated, under which the rights and guarantees that are accorded to domestic investors would be extended to foreign investors. November 1. An agreement on Overseas Private Investment Cooperation was concluded with the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31, 1992, the exchange rates for buying and selling were P 24.5 and P 25.5, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of the Phil- ippines is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange, except for transactions conducted at the trading center. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) or by telephone. Under the Private Corporate Sector Foreign Cur- rency Debt Repayment Program (Central Bank Cir- cular Nos. 1076 and 1178) administered by the Private Debt Restructuring and Repayment Corpora- tion (PDRRC), corporate debtors and their foreign creditors are provided with options for arranging re- payments and rescheduling, with partial forward ex- change cover provided if desired by the debtor; full forward cover is provided only for financially dis- tressed borrowers. To be eligible for the program, debt must be non-trade-related; owed to a bank or fi- nancial institution, except multilateral agencies and foreign government agencies that are members of the Paris Club; outstanding and duly registered with the Central Bank as of October 17, 1983; and falling due between October 17, 1983 and December 31, 1986 (Central Bank Circular No. 1076) or between January 1,1987 and December 31, 1992 (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). If partial (75 percent) for- ward cover is provided, the PDRRC enters into a for- ward contract with the debtor that allows the debtor to pay the PDRRC peso amounts equivalent to the rescheduled maturities converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date that the eligible debt was effectively entered into the program, plus quarterly fees equal to the product of the domestic interest rate prevailing at the beginning of the quarter on the peso value of the outstanding debt. The PDRRC remits on the same date the peso value of the obligation at the prevailing central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars to the Treasury Depart- ment of the Central Bank, which, in turn, assumes the principal obligation; the PDRRC also remits in- terest payments to the creditor at LIBOR through the Central Bank. On the other hand, if 100 percent for- ward cover is provided, the PDRRC extends a no- tional peso loan to the borrower equal to the peso equivalent of the debt involved, converted at the central bank selling rate for U.S. dollars prevailing on the date the debt was effectively entered into the program. Subject to PDRRC's receipt from the debtor of the service payments on this notional peso loan, the PDRRC remits on the same date the service pay- ments on the foreign loan to the Treasury Depart- ment of the Central Bank, which, in turn, assumes the foreign loan in favor of the creditor. Under the Philippine Private Financial Sector Foreign Currency Debt Repayment Program (Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 1081, superseded by No. 1179) administered by the Central Bank, private financial sector borrowers and their foreign lenders are provided with options for the rescheduling of their specified debt outstanding as of October 17, 1983. Options, usually on the part of the lenders, include (1) retention by the lender of the private financial obligor's credit risk, subject to repayment as follows: one-sixth of the principal amount in each of the calendar years 1993 and 1994, and one- third of the principal amount in each of the calen- dar years 1995 and 1996, and (2) central bank assumption of the foreign obligation involved through the delivery of Philippine pesos, or as may be agreed between the Central Bank and the bor- rower. For obligations thus assumed, the Central Bank executes a Credit Schedule under the Central Bank Restructuring Agreement corresponding to the dollar equivalent of each peso amount deliv- ered by the borrower to the Central Bank. In respect of a specified debt covered by an existing swap or foreign exchange contract entered into with the Central Bank for its own account, a private financial sector borrower may continue to benefit from the forward exchange rate set for th in that contract. With respect to obligations owed to the Paris Club, all Paris Club borrowers with loans assumed by the Central Bank under the Paris Club resched- ulings are enjoined to deposit with the Central Bank on the original due date the peso equivalent of 100 percent of principal and interest. The Central Bank provides the corresponding forward cover for 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 PHILIPPINES the amount deposited and pays the rescheduling interest from the date of deposit. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Without prior approval, non-Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may engage in business in the Philippines or invest in a domestic enterprise up to 100 percent of their capital. Pursuant to Circular No. 1353, dated August 24, 1992, foreign exchange may be freely sold and pur- chased outside the banking system. Foreign exchange received in the Philippines or acquired abroad may also be deposited in foreign currency accounts. However, in order that foreign loans and foreign investments can be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, the proceeds of such foreign loans and foreign invest- ments must continue to be sold to authorized agent banks for pesos. Commercial banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to the limitation that long and short positions do not exceed 25 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of unim- paired capital. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange pro- ceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Authorized agent banks are authorized to accept notes denomi- nated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of individual or corporate nonresidents without the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from or proceeds of conver- sion of properties (real or personal) located in the Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Bahra in dinars, Bel- gian francs, Brunei dollars, Canad ian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Ma lays ian ringgit, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi A rab ian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai bah t, and U.S. dollars. Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonres- ident accounts may be freely debited for peso with- drawals. Both residents and nonresidents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Residents are allowed to maintain deposits abroad without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. However, certain commodities are regulated or restricted for reasons of public health, safety, international commitments, develop- ment, and the rationalization of local industries. Imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, prohibited, and regulated. Freely importable products may be processed by autho- rized agent banks without prior approval or clear- ance from any government agency. Prohibited products include onions, corn, potatoes, garlic, cab- bages (except for seedling purposes), coffee, used clothing and rags, toy guns, and those products spe- cifically listed in the third category under Section 101 of the Tariff and Customs Contract. The third cate- gory covers a relatively small proportion of imports and consists of items related to public health and national security whose importation requires clear- ance and permits from appropriate government agencies (including the Central Bank). Self-financed imports paid for on consignment or a "no-dollar basis" do not require prior approval. Applications for the importation of machinery, equipment, and spare parts may be acted upon by authorized agent banks without prior approval from the Central Bank or the Board of Investments (BOI). The importation of capital goods financed through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval if the servicing of the foreign credit is to be sourced from the banking system. Preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 under the Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme (CISS) for all ports of origin for Philippine imports, as well as those imports declared as used, secondhand, stock lots, and so forth, which need to be inspected regardless of value. Imports may be effected against letters of credit, on a documents against acceptance (D /A) or docu- ments against payments (D/P) basis, under open account (O /A) arrangements, or by direct remit- tances. The D /A and O/A procedures are restricted to oil firms, export producers or manufacturers, franchised public utility concerns, and domestic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 403 producers or manufacturers approved by the Cen- tral Bank. All import transactions channeled through authorized agent banks are reported to the Central Bank within 48 hours of the transaction for letters of credit and within 48 hours of the issuance of release certificates for use of D/A and O/A, for monitoring purposes. Separate regulations apply to imports into spe- cific regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange without prior approval from the Central Bank for payments on any foreign exchange transaction, except for payments related to foreign loans or investments. There are no limits on allowances for travel, education, medical expenses, or other cur- rent invisible payments. Full and immediate repatriation of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents from all types of investment may be effected directly through commercial banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. However, service payments relating to foreign loans or foreign direct investments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are lim- ited to those transactions whose original capital transfer is sold for pesos at authorized banks and has previously been registered with the Central Bank. Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred for the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current income may be transferred. Resident and nonresident travelers must have prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 5,000 in domestic bank notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P 2,700 for first-class passage and P 1,620 for econ- omy-class passage. Reduced rates of P 1,350 for first-class passengers and P 810 for economy-class passengers are provided for groups of people trav- eling for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P 400 for first-class passengers and P 300 for economy-class passengers are provided for dependents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Overseas Employment Admin- istration. Departing tourists are allowed to recon- vert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos of up to a maximum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign exchange (calculated at prevailing exchange rates) without proof of sales of foreign exchange to authorized agent banks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of logs and lumber are prohibited. Exports of certain commodities, mostly agricultural or traditional products, deemed essential for indus- trialization, conservation, and economic develop- ment are regulated and, except for no-dollar exports, require prior export clearance from the government agencies concerned. Exports to South Africa require prior authorization from the Philip- pine International Trading Corporation. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted. All exports must be covered by export declara- tions or permits. Authorized agent banks may issue and amend the Monthly Export Declaration (MED) without prior approval from the Central Bank. As a general rule, the shipping documents and the export payments must be channeled through the local banking system; however, pay- ment under O/A arrangements may be allowed with prior approval from the Central Bank. Unless fully prepaid (or under O /A), the exporter must, within ten days of the da te of completion of load- ing, present to the authorized agent bank a cover- ing d r a ft with shipping documents for negotiation or collection. If the consignment is fu l ly prepaid, the exporter must present copies of the shipping documents within the same period for record- keeping purposes. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to the Philippines within 180 days of the date of shipment unless a longer period is allowed by the Central Bank. There are no surrender requirements for export earnings, and exporters are permitted to use freely all of their export proceeds, including those deposited in special foreign cur- rency deposit accounts pursuant to the previous surrender system. There are no export taxes. Trade with Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Romania, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. no longer requires clearance. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no mandatory surrender requirements on proceeds from most invisibles, which may be used without restriction. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 5,000 in domestic bank notes and coins and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 PHILIPPINES checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Capital Virtually all capital transfers to South Africa are prohibited. All inward investments need to be reg- istered with the Central Bank. The registration of a foreign investment with the Central Bank is required only if the foreign exchange needed to ser- vice the repatriation of capital and remittances of dividends and profits originate from the banking system. Foreign exchange proceeds from registered investments and foreign loans must be sold to authorized agent banks for pesos in order to pur- chase foreign exchange for related servicing from authorized agent banks. When applications for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) are reviewed, no priority or preference is given to the category of industry in which the investment is made, as long as (1) it does not violate the national- ization law and its requirements; (2) there is inward remittance for cash investments; and (3) investment in kind covers only machinery and equipment, raw materials, supplies and spare parts, and other items necessary for the operation of the invested firm. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash invest- ment in export-oriented industries that have been registered with the Central Bank, in enterprises reg- istered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt- equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Investments in domestic commercial banks registered with the Central Bank may be repatriated freely. Foreign direct investment is permitted in connec- tion with the Program for the Conversion of Philip- pine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external debt, including rescheduled debt, may be converted into equity investment. Specifically, with regard to cen- tral bank debt, regular quarterly auctions are held to allocate conversion rights. Other conversion operations must be approved by the Central Bank. For investments in the priority sectors, capital repa- triation is not permitted during the first three years after the investment; during the four th through eighth years, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. For investments in other sectors, capital repa- triation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the tenth years, no more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. All public and certain private sector loans from for- eign creditors, offshore banking units, and Foreign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs) must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. These loans include (1) publicly guaranteed loans; (2) those cov- ered by foreign exchange guarantees by local com- mercial banks; (3) those guaranteed by FCDUs and funded or collateralized by offshore loans or deposits; and (4) medium- and long-term loans obtained by pri- vate commercial banks and financial institutions for relending to public or private enterprises. Approval for public sector loans must be obtained before actual negotiations commence. Other private sector loans from these creditors require prior approval from and/or registration at the Central Bank only if they are to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the banking sys- tem. However, subject to certain conditions and requirements, the following short-term loans (not exceeding 360 days) do not require prior Central Bank approval and may be serviced out of foreign exchange purchased from the banking system: (1) loans of financial institutions for normal inter- bank transactions; (2) private sector export advances from buyers abroad; and (3) loans from FCDUs of commodity service exporters, producers, and manu- facturers, including oil companies and public utility concerns. Loans requiring prior Central Bank approval are normally expected to finance export-oriented and BOI-registered projects, those listed in the Invest- ment Priorities Plan (IPP) and in the Medium-Term Public Investment Program, and those that may be declared priorities by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) or Congress. Medium- and long-term loans may finance foreign exchange costs and up to 50 percent of the local cost component of eligible projects. Short-term loans finance foreign exchange requirements of projects exclusively, except for pre-export financing require- ments, which may also be used to cover peso costs. Terms of loans to be obtained by the national Gov- ernment and government corporations must be in accordance with the provisions of pertinent laws, although other loans may be made on terms similar to those prevailing in the international capital markets. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires prior approval from the Central Bank through the Foreign Exchange Opera- tions and Investments Department only when the investment is funded by purchases of foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 405 exchange from authorized agent banks and is in excess of $1 million per investor per year. Seventeen foreign banks are operating offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transac- tions with nonresidents and with other offshore banking units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos exclusively with domestic agent banks to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay desig- nated local beneficiaries of nonresident Philippine or multinational companies the equivalent of for- eign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore banking units may also sell inward remittances of foreign exchange to the Cen- tral Bank. Foreign nationals are allowed full ownership of export and domestic market enterprises, except those on the three negative lists. List A restricts for- eign investments as provided for in the constitu- tion; List B restricts foreign investments in defense- related activities and in activities detrimental to public morals and health; and List C includes sec- tors considered to be adequately served by Philip- pine interests. Under the Foreign Investments Act of 1991, non- Philippine nationals not otherwise disqualified by law may, upon registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), conduct business in the country or invest in domestic enterprises up to 100 percent of capital unless participation is prohib- ited by existing law. However, enterprises seeking to apply for incentives must also register with the BOI. Foreign investors in export enterprises must also register with the BOI. All industrial enterprises, whether owned by nationals or nonnationals, shall comply with the environmental standards set by the Government. Gold Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the Central Bank. Producers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. The exportation of gold in any form, except for that produced by small-scale miners, is permitted. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except coin blanks essentially for gold coins and those without any indication of actual fineness of gold content. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines, as follows: a 1 Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500 Piso IMF- IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000 Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500 Piso Douglas MacArthur centenary coin (1980); a 1,500 Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1980 and 1981); a 1,500 Piso Bataan-Corregidor coin (1982); a 2,500 Piso Aquino- Reagan coin (1986); and a 10,000 Democracy Restored coin (1992). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 960 (Sections 175 and 176), dated October 21,1983. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 30. Commercial banks were allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions, subject to certain limits. Their long and short foreign exchange positions may not exceed 25 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of their unimpaired capital. July 10. Administrative sanctions were imposed on banks violating the net open foreign exchange position limits. July 30. Restrictions on floor trading were lifted, and a system of eight-hour continuous interbank foreign exchange trading under the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) was introduced. Imports and Import Payments April 27. Ninety-seven products were exempted from the prior approval requirements for imports. July 27. Forty-two products were exempted from the prior approval requirements for imports. July 28. Revised rules governing foreign trade transactions were promulgated. With respect to imports, the following measures were imple- mented: (1) the streamlining of import classifica- tions; (2) the liberalization of modes of payments; (3) the elimination of the requirement that self- funded imports and those paid for on consignment, or on a no-dollar basis, be approved by the Central Bank; (4) the simplification of certain procedures and the exemption of specified transactions from prior central bank approval requirements; and (5) the abolition of special time deposit penalties imposed on violators of import restrictions. September 15. The requirement that all importa- tions by public and private sector borrowers funded by duly approved foreign loans be referred to the Central Bank for prior clearances was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 PHILIPPINES September 18. Imports from South Africa would require only the prior approval from the Philippine International Trading Corporation and would no longer be prohibited. September 25. A list of products whose importa- tion would no longer require prior approval of con- cerned government agencies was published. September 28. A list of BOI-registered semicon- ductor and allied enterprises exempted from the preshipment inspection under the comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme was published. November 9. The liberalization of import restric- tions on corn was postponed until March 1,1993. November 23. Finished products imported for direct resale were no longer allowed to be financed under documents against acceptance (D /A) or open account (O /A) arrangements. Payments for Invisibles January 3. The revised Manual of Rules and Regu- lations governing nontrade foreign exchange trans- actions was issued. Amounts of foreign exchange that commercial banks may sell to residents for cer- tain purposes (travel allowances, educational expenses, medical expenses, support of depen- dents, and transfer of emigrants' assets) without prior approval from the Central Bank were increased substantially. August 24. All quantitative limits on the amount of foreign exchange that authorized banks may sell to residents for travel, education, and medical expenses were eliminated. Authorized banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange without obtain- ing prior approval from the Central Bank for any payment on foreign exchange transactions, except for those payments related to external loans, which will continue to be subject to existing regulations issued by the Central Bank. In addition, departing tourists were allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos up to a maximum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign exchange without proof of conversion of foreign exchange at authorized banks. September 16. The restriction on imports and exports of Philippine currency, as amended on August 24, was clarified to include electronic trans- fers and other similar modes of transfer. Exports and Export Proceeds January 3. The retention ratio for exporters was raised to 40 percent. March 9. The requirement that exporters must file reports of foreign sales was abolished. April 1. Exporters were allowed to use funds deposited in their special foreign currency deposit accounts (SFCDAs) without restriction. July 28. Revised rules governing foreign trade transactions were promulgated. Changes pertain- ing to export transactions included the following: (1) the liberalization of modes of payments; (2) a lengthening of the period of inward remittance of export proceeds to 100 days from 90 days; (3) an increase in the ceilings on the value of samples or specimens and gifts and donations that may be exported without prior approval from the Central Bank; (4) the removal of the requirement that prior other no-dollar exports be approved by the Central Bank; and (5) the simplification of certain proce- dures and reporting requirements. August 13. Authorized banks were informed that Bulgaria, Cambodia, Cuba, Romania, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. had been removed from the list of socialist and other centrally planned econo- mies and that exports to and imports from these countries would no longer require clearance. August 24. The following changes in the rules governing export transactions were announced: (1) authorized banks may issue the MED without prior approval from the Central Bank; (2) changes to the Export Declaration would be allowed by authorized banks without prior approval from the Central Bank; (3) Intercompany Open Account Offset Arrangements would be allowed without prior approval from the Central Bank; (4) repatriation of export proceeds within 180 days from date of shipment would not be required; (5) deductions from export bills would be permit- ted; (6) export clearance for exports payable beyond 180 days from shipment date would not require prior approval from the Central Bank; (7) the retention rate of export receipts was increased to 100 percent, and the proceeds were allowed to be used freely for any purpose; (8) all no-dollar exports would no longer require prior approval from the Central Bank; and (9) authorized banks were not required to submit to the Central Bank Export Department reports on the opening, closing, or outstanding balances of SFCDAs. The rules on intercompany open account arrange- ments, exports made on a consignment basis, inward remittances and payment periods, exports requiring prior approval from the Central Bank, and the use of SFCDA and no-dollar exports requiring prior approval from the Central Bank were repealed. September 18. Exports to South Africa would require only prior approval from the Philippine ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 407 International Trading Corporation and would no longer be prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles January 3. The mandatory surrender requirement was eliminated for most earnings from services, including remittances from overseas workers. The surrender requirements were retained for 15 types of services, including insurance, hotel, airline, con- struction contract, communication, and bunkering. April 28. The retention privilege granted to exporters of goods was extended to exporters of services. August 24. Residents of the Philippines were no longer required to sell foreign exchange receipts to authorized banks, and foreign exchange receipts were allowed to be deposited in foreign currency accounts in the Philippines or abroad. However, proceeds of loans and foreign exchange remitted inwardly for foreign direct investment purposes must continue to be sold for pesos to authorized banks and must be serviced by authorized banks with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Capital January 3. Authorized banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange for repatriation of all types of investments without prior approval from the Cen- tral Bank. April 28. Exporters of services were allowed to obtain FCDU loans up to 70 percent of foreign exchange receipts expected in 360 days. June 22. Foreign exchange payments for princi- pal, interest, fees, and related charges on foreign credit approved by and registered with the Central Bank and not subject to or covered by rescheduling with foreign creditors were allowed to be remitted through authorized banks without prior approval from the Central Bank. August 21. Revised policy guidelines on short- term foreign currency loans were promulgated, and the FCDUs were allowed to extend the following short-term foreign currency loans without prior approval from the Central Bank: (1) normal inter- bank transactions; (2) borrowings by commodity and service exporters; and (3) borrowings by resi- dent FCDU depositors against their own FCDU deposits, subject to certain conditions. August 24. Investors were allowed to purchase for- eign exchange up to $1 million annually from the banking system for investments abroad, without prior approval from the Central Bank. All limits on repatria- tion of capital or remittances of dividends from for- eign direct equity investments were removed. Foreign banks were permitted to grant short-term foreign cur- rency loans to eligible borrowers without prior approval from the Central Bank, and commercial banks were allowed to extend both short- and long- term foreign currency loans without prior approval from the Central Bank. October 23. Policies, rules, and regulations gov- erning medium- and long-term loans obtained by residents from foreign creditors and local Federal Currency Deposit Units were consolidated as fol- lows: (1) negotiations of public sector loans would require prior approval from the Central Bank; (2) negotiations of private sector loans would require prior approval from the Central Bank, and the purpose of these loans must be registered with the Central Bank in order to service such loans with foreign exchange purchased from authorized agent banks; (3) private sector loans to finance projects must cover up to 50 percent of the local cost compo- nents; and (4) medium- and long-term loans must be made at the interest rate prevailing in the inter- national capital markets. Gold January 3. Gold produced by small-scale mining companies was required to be sold to the Central Bank. February 7. Producers of primary gold and locally smelted secondary gold were allowed to export their output directly. July 28. Sixty percent of proceeds from exports of primary and secondary gold were required to be sold to the Central Bank through authorized banks. August 24. Exports of gold in any form, except for the output of small-scale mining companies, were allowed. Prior approval from the Central Bank was no longer required for the importation of gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy per 1 zloty), the external value of which is pegged to a basket of five currencies.1 Since October 14,1991, a crawling peg policy has been followed. Under this policy, the zloty is presently depreciated by Zl 12 a business day against the basket, subject to a maxi- mum of 1.8 percent a month. The exchange rates between the zloty and other convertible currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned on international markets. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes exchange rates for the Euro- pean Currency Unit (ECU), the SDR, and the curren- cies of 28 countries2 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the bank notes and coins of a limited number of the currencies,3 it stands ready to effect transactions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set within a spread of 1 percent, except for notes and coins, for which the spread is set at 2 percent.4 Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in international markets and are set daily. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for spot trans- actions in U.S. dollars were Zl 15,688 and Zl 15,846, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector, although the legal basis for such arrangements has been established. l rThe basket consists of (figures in parentheses represent weights) U.S. dollar (45 percent); deutsche mark (35 percent); pound sterling (10 percent); French f ranc (5 percent); and Swiss franc (5 percent). 2Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Ira- nian rials, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Libyan dinars, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. 3 Ind ian rupees, Iranian rials, Irish pounds, Kuwa i ti dinars, and Libyan dinars. 4 Since Janua ry 13, 1992, banks in Poland have been given more freedom in determining the exchange rates to use in for- eign exchange transactions. Specifically, they are permitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2 percent around the middle ra te set by the NBP. Banks7 transactions with the NBP now take place at the buy /se ll ratio set by the NBP, whereas pre- viously they took place at the NBP's middle rate. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies. The exchange rate on the parallel exchange mar- ket, in which natural persons are allowed to trans- act freely provided the transaction is not a commercial one, is determined by market forces and may differ from the official rate set by the NBP.5 However, exchange rate policy is geared in part to limiting the differential between the two exchange rates, and during 1992 the parallel market exchange rate remained closely in line with the official rate. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates in the parallel market were Zl 15,800 and Zl 15,958, respectively, per US$1. Since January 1, 1991, almost all trade with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) has been conducted at world market prices and settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of trade, both under pre-existing contracts and to settle ruble balances outstanding at the end of 1990, continued to be transacted in transferable rubles during 1991-92. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Exchange Control Law rests with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Minister of Finance in the form of general foreign exchange permits or by the president of the NBP in the form of individual permits. General permits are issued for all residents and nonresidents, or for speci- fied groups. The authority to enforce foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the presi- dent of the NBP. However, decisions concerning indi- vidual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Foreign exchange control is exercised by the Min- ister of Finance and the entities responsible to him, the NBP, the foreign exchange banks, customs offices, the border guard, and post offices. Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments related to foreign debt. 5 Foreign exchange bureaus (kantory) must obtain licenses to operate in the parallel exchange market. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 409 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Poland has multilateral and bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and in accor- dance with the procedures set forth in those agree- ments.6 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agree- ments, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural and juridical persons) may hold foreign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, and the like. Two types of foreign currency accounts are available: (1) convertible cur- rency accounts "A," and (2) foreign exchange accounts for foreign settlements. (1) "A" accounts are held by natural persons and may be freely credited with convertible currency brought in or transferred from abroad and /or deposited without a declaration of the sources of the funds. Account holders may use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to finance tourist travel abroad by them or other persons, and to effect gifts to family members or other persons. The funds on deposit may not be used to effect settlementsbetween individuals or for business purposes, but funds withdrawn in foreign currency may be resold to the foreign exchange bureau. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the prevailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Sight deposits in accounts maintained in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars earn interest at the annual rate of 4 percent. (2) Foreign exchange accounts for foreign settlements (ROD) are held by juridical persons. Before January 1, 1990, ROD accounts could be credited with for- eign exchange retained against exports in convert- ible currencies. Since January 1, 1990, although all foreign exchange receipts from exports, in princi- ple, must be surrendered, juridical persons have been allowed to retain foreign exchange accumu- 6A11 bilateral payments agreements maintained by Poland were effectively terminated by December 31, 1990, with all new contracts being concluded in convertible currencies. However, new agreements with Brazil and Nepal specifying that trade would take place in convertible currencies have not yet been signed. Also, under the agreements with Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Lebanon, and Turkey, outstanding balances are still being settled under bilat- eral agreements. Balances outstanding under the arrangements of the former International Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. lated in ROD accounts before that date. The funds, however, may not be used for settlement between enterprises. Resident individuals and enterprises who dem- onstrate proof of need may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission of the NBP. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible cur- rency accounts ("C" accounts) at the NBP, the Bank Handlowy, the Bank PKO, S.A., or one of the com- mercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, with transfers from other such accounts, and with con- vertible currency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad and may be used to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency. Interest rates on these accounts held by natural persons are fixed by banks and paid annually. Interest rates on the accounts of juridical persons are fixed at the same rates, except demand deposits, which do not earn interest. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors must declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other opera- tions that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Apart from zlotys legally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with for- eign exchange converted into zlotys at the official exchange rate. Permits for conversion back into for- eign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings in savings accounts, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or residents. Such transfers require a foreign exchange permit, except for gifts to resi- dents. Nonresidents may make transfers only to fam- ily members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment, temporary imports of capital goods, transport equipment for leasing, and inputs subject ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 POLAND to a quota system. Licenses are required for imports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral settlements. The importation of certain mineral oils, tobacco prod- ucts, and alcoholic beverages is subject to a quota. Export quotas cover only items subject to import restrictions by other countries. Export licenses are required for (1) goods subject to export quotas; (2) exports carried out within the framework of international agreements that stipulate bilateral set- tlements; (3) temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing; and (4) certain raw materials (e.g., coal and scraps), dairy prod- ucts, certain feed grains, and animal feeds to help maintain balance in the domestic market. Nonresi- dents in Poland (persons domiciled abroad but not foreign corporate entities operating in Poland) are required, temporarily, to apply for export permits. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HCDCS) and the combined nomenclature of the EC of 1991, with six basic rates: 0 percent for equipment for the disabled; 5 percent for raw materials; 10-15 percent for semi- manufactured goods, machinery, and equipment; 20 percent for industrial consumer goods; 25- 35 percent for agricultural products and textiles; and 45 percent for alcohol, tobacco products, and luxury articles. The average rate is 18.4 percent (13 percent on a trade-weighted basis). For imports originating in countries that do not enjoy most-favored-nation (MEN) status, the rates of duty are twice as high, unless the MEN rate is zero, in which case a 25 percent rate is imposed. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General System of Preferences. Also, imports from 42 developing countries, tropical products from Chapters 6 to 24 of the HCDCS, and many goods from Chapters 32 and 94 of the HCDCS that are of interest to developing countries enter the country duty-free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per cap- ita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced to 30 percent of the MFN rate. Some special regulations pertain to border trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. Imports are subject to a surcharge of Zl 50,000 and an additional turnover tax of 6 percent; alco- holic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and auto- mobiles are exempt from the turnover tax. Exports other than coal are free from turnover taxes. Ehities and turnover taxes on imports for export produc- tion are refunded. Exporters must declare all foreign currency receipts from exports, repatriate them within two months of receipt, and surrender them to the Polish foreign exchange banks within 14 days of receiving notice that foreign exchange has been deposited in their accounts in Poland. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from merchandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions. All other invisible transac- tions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such pay- ments is made available automatically once the transaction is authorized. Resident travelers may take out of Poland the equivalent of $2,000 in convertible currencies with- out official permission. Documentary proof of ori- gin is necessary for amounts exceeding this limit. However, holders of A accounts may take out of the country the balance of their accounts without limit. For official and business travel, separate allow- ances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Business travelers may take out of Poland up to the equivalent of $10,000 from the foreign currency accounts maintained by the enterprises that employ them for the purchase of goods and services associated with their business activity or travel expenses. Polish nationals departing Poland are permitted to take abroad up to $2,000 or the equivalent in convert- ible foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks that they purchased from foreign exchange banks to pay outstanding obligations to foreign nationals resulting from (1) the purchase of movable assets and proprietary interests, and (2) transportation, freight forwarding, and insurance services. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries may reconvert zlotys up to the equiva- lent they brought into Poland, provided that the amount is not more than that originally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Residents may, without approval, bring into or take out of the country domestic bank notes and coins in an amount not exceeding Z15 million a person. Foreign visitors must declare foreign exchange they bring into the country in order to take out the unspent amount and are not permitted to bring zlotys into or take them out of the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 411 On condition of reciprocity, residents may remit pensions and annuities in convertible foreign exchange at the official exchange rate to nonresi- dents who are entitled to such payments on the basis of a ruling from the social security administra- tion. Business entities may use their ROD accounts to pay wages and salaries to nonresident employ- ees. They may also use their ROD accounts, or for- eign exchange purchased from foreign exchange banks, to pay outstanding obligations chargeable to (1) procurement costs, including costs of participa- tion in exhibitions and fairs, and advertising costs; (2) fees for agent representational services; (3) costs of repairing and overhauling imported machinery and equipment; (4) costs associated with the protec- tion of intellectual property; and (5) costs related to auditing, consulting, and information services. Sim- ilarly, individuals may submit foreign exchange to pay for (1) participation in international organiza- tions and international hotel networks abroad; (2) costs of court or arbitration proceedings up to the equivalent of $20,000 a case; (3) costs of obtain- ing legal counsel and trial representation in a given case up to $50,000 or the equivalent; and (4) taxes, customs duties, or administrative fees payable abroad. Remittances for study abroad require an individual foreign exchange permit. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Poland, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agree- ments between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises and through individual foreign exchange permits. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 100 percent of their income. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, or the acquisi- tion of shares in Polish companies, may be trans- ferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the investment yields a net surplus in a convertible currency in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the surplus may be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50 percent of net profits af ter taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on the public sector's external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the provisions of the banking law, the NBP, Bank Hand- lowy, Bank PKO, S.A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to borrow abroad, on short or long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minis- ter of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks, and the contracting of foreign loans is subject to approval. Negotiable export documents are discountable by foreign banks. With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed with a credit up to the equivalent of $1 million, with repayment terms of up to 360 days. With a permit, imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $1 million may also be financed with a credit, with repayment terms of up to three years. A new foreign investment law (Law on Compa- nies with Foreign Participation) came into effect on July 4, 1991, replacing the old Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which had governed all new foreign direct investments since December 23, 1988. Under the 1991 law, new businesses will need to register only with local courts, except for investments in the areas of sea- ports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, legal services, and wholesale trade in imported products, which will continue to require permits. Although the previous three-year tax holiday for new businesses was abolished, the taxation system was simplified, and imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Investors in certain priority sectors will also be eligible for tax conces- sions, as will investments exceeding ECU 2 million a year. The 10 percent ceiling on purchases in shares of privatization issues has been abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above- mentioned sectors. For joint ventures, as well as for investments in shares of Polish companies, all limits on the transfer of profits have been lifted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are met. The transfer of prof- its or repatriation of capital from bonds requires a foreign exchange permit. The 1991 law does not stip- ulate a minimum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, thus eliminating the requirement of $50,000. Nevertheless, the minimum capital requirement set forth in the Polish commer- cial code for a limited liability company and a joint- stock company is still in effect. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates or to acquire an interest in a foreign enterprise, requires a foreign exchange permit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 412 POLAND All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign exchange permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the NBP to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial assets may be deposited in a nonres- ident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of Interior. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to per- mission from the foreign exchange authorities. Pol- ish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign exchange. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1992 Imports and Exports January 1. Import duties on motor vehicles (both passenger and truck), cigarettes, computers, and consumer electronics were raised. February 28. The suspension of tar iffs was lifted on 330 items. March 1. An interim trade agreement with the EC became effective; import tariffs on a large number of industrial goods and agricultural commodities from the EC were abolished or reduced. October 21. Duty-free tariff quotas were intro- duced for some wheat and barley products. December 17. A 6 percent additional turnover tax on imports, except alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and automobiles, was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of May 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo. Portugal participates with Belgium, Den- mark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary System (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Portugal maintains the spot exchange rates between the Portuguese escudo and the cur- rencies of the other participants, within margins of 6 percent, above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Banco de Portu- gal (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlim- ited amounts at specified intervention rates. On May 14,1993, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Spanish pesetas 100 100 100 100 1 100 100 Portuguese Escudos Upper limit Lower limit 509.230 2,753.500 10,504.200 3,131.600 253.234 9,321.400 132.750 451.670 2,442.300 9,319.700 2,777.700 224.615 8,267.900 117.750 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the ECU, and the U.S. dollar. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies2 are based on information on the exchange rate of the Portuguese escudo in terms of l rThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and Italy withdrew on September 17,1992. 2Au s t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- d ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. The Macao pa taca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 per HK$1. the deutsche mark provided by the banking system and are announced daily by the Banco de Portugal. These rates are a reference for the banks' bid and offer rates, which are freely set. On December 31, 1992, the official rate for the U.S. dollar was Esc 146.76 per US$1. A tax of 0.9 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange except on interbank trans- actions. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency among themselves and with residents and nonresidents at free market rates of exchange. Nonbank residents may also conduct spot or forward exchange opera- tions with nonresident counterparts. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Banco de Portugal for their foreign exchange posi- tions (calculated as the sum of the positions against escudos in each foreign currency). Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 12,1988. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Com- merce and Tourism. The Direc^ao-Geral do Comer- cio in this ministry is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Portugal notified the IMF on July 12, 1993 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 820 (1993), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be effected in any currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to open and operate accounts in Portugal or abroad in either escudos or foreign currencies. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 PORTUGAL Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be freely made into Portugal. For products under EC surveillance, import declarations, when required, are issued for statistical surveillance purposes and are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of cer- tain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions or prohibited for reasons of health, public order, and the preven- tion of commercial f raud. Imports subject to quanti- tative restrictions require an import license. For agricultural products covered by the com- mon agricultural policy of the EC, the EC may require an import certificate. The validity of the import declaration is six months for customs clear- ance purposes. In accordance with the Act of Accession of Portu- gal to the EC, imports of some agricultural products are subject to temporary restrictions when originat- ing in EC and third countries. A few industrial products are subject to restrictions only when they originate in third countries. A more extensive restricted list, which applies to Japan, includes manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Exports and Export Proceeds the ICEP does not reply within two months. Projects submitted by non-EC investors may be subject to review. The establishment of a financial institution in Portugal in which a majority voting right is held by natural persons who are not nationals of an EC member country or by legal persons with their main office and central management in a non-EC country is subject to previous authorization from the Ministry of Finance, which may consider pru- dential requirements as well as other criteria. Simi- lar regulations apply to the establishment, in Portugal, of branches of a financial institution located in an non-EC member country The establishment in a non-EC member country of branches of financial institutions by nonresidents is subject to prior authorization from the Banco de Portugal. The issuing of securities by nonresidents in a for- eign capital market requires prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Portugal. Residents and nonresidents may also import and export bullion, coins, and unworked gold, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 million. Exports are free of restrictions. Proceeds from exports are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. The exporta- tion or importation by residents or nonresidents of bank notes or coins and traveler's checks in excess of the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million must be declared to customs. Capital There are no exchange restrictions or controls on capital transactions and no distinction is made between capital transactions with residents of EC member countries and residents of non-EC member countries. Foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. For- eign direct investment operations require prior dec- laration to the Investmentos Comercio e Tourismo de Portugal (ICEP) and are considered approved if April 6. Portugal joined the exchange rate and intervention system (ERM) of the European Mone- tary System (EMS). November 23. The central rate of the Portuguese escudo in the ERM was devalued by 6 percent (together with the Spanish peseta) against other participating currencies. December 16. The restriction on forward pur- chases from or sales of escudos to nonresidents not directly associated with trade in goods and services or for authorized capital transfers was abolished. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) Capital September 1. (I) The contracting of medium- and long-term financial credits from abroad was liberal- ized; (2) The compulsory deposit requirement against ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 415 deposits in foreign currency was abolished, and the existing balances maintained at the Banco de Portugal were released. November 1. The ban on purchases by nonresi- dents of floating rate securities in escudos for which interest adjustments were effected at intervals of less than one year was lifted. November 26. The contracting of short-term finan- cial credits from abroad was liberalized. December 16. The remaining exchange restrictions on capital transactions were lifted; as a result, the following transactions would be permitted freely: (1) opening of interest-bearing escudo deposits by nonresidents (and the elimination of the corre- sponding reserve requirement against such depos- its); (2) demand and term deposits abroad by residents; (3) acquisition of money-market instru- ments by nonresidents; (4) short-term lending in escudos to nonresidents; and (5) foreign exchange operations between nonbank residents and nonresi- dents (effective January 1,1993). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 per SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate, but these margins were exceeded between September 1990 and February 1991, and again in December 1991. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in U.S. dollars are based on the Mone- tary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0087 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 4,1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange con- trol authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammuni- tion, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Imports of gen- eral goods are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC); imports of steel are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 20 percent, and imports of tobacco and tobacco derivatives are subject to a customs tariff at the rate of 50 percent. Imports of goods from other member countries of the GCC are not subject to a customs ta r i f f. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Iraq, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. No requirements are attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Nonciti- zens may engage in simple crafts as well as in com- merce, industry, agriculture, and services jointly with Qatari partners, provided that the latter's share is not less than 51 percent. Noncitizens may also establish companies specializing in contracting business with Qatari partners, subject to the above conditions, if it is determined that there is a need to 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 4£ establish such companies or if there is a need for the experience and technology they provide. _ _ , Gold purposes, the buying and selling of gold and pre- cious metals require an import license and are sub- ject to customs duty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The monetary authorities and all other residents , ., ^, ^ . .,-,.- ROMANIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the refer- ence exchange rate) is determined by daily auctions organized by the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The NBR and authorized commercial banks partici- pate in the auctions. On December 31, 1992, the exchange rate was lei 460 per US$1. The NBR quotes rates for 22 other currencies,1 based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the European Cur- rency Unit. Foreign exchange bureaus that conduct transactions only in foreign currency bank notes and traveler's checks and only with natural persons are currently in operation. The transferable ruble, the currency used for commercial transactions with the member countries of the former Council for Mutual Economic Assis- tance (CMEA), has been abolished but continues to be used as a unit of account for the purpose of liqui- dating outstanding balances. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control Under the provision of the law setting up the NBR as the country's central bank, which came into force on May 3,1991, the NBR issues rules and reg- ulations related to control of foreign exchange transactions. The NBR authorizes all capital trans- fers, including those connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons, and pension payments abroad on the basis of visas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Domestic com- mercial banks are authorized by the NBR to con- duct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions and are permitted to have foreign banks as correspondents or to bor- row directly abroad with NBR authorization. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Ind ian rupees, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Turkish liras. Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made only in currency and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.2 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and natural persons may main- tain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized by the NBR to operate in Roma- nia. There are three kinds of accounts. A accounts are maintained in convertible currencies or in lei obtained from the sale of convertible currencies, precious metals, coins, or ingots (other than silver). B accounts are maintained in nonconvertible cur- rencies quoted by the NBR or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies for liquidation purposes only. Transactions in any individual B account may be effected in only one such cur- rency. C accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C account. B accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies held in the account or from which the funds are derived and for payments within Romania. C accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Loan Bank. Authorized Romanian commercial banks may accept time deposits in convertible currencies from nonresident customers paying interest at prevailing international market rates. Juridical persons with state-owned or privately owned capital are permitted to open and maintain foreign currency accounts with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania by the NBR. In special cases, juridical persons may be allowed to 2At the end of December 31,1992, Romania had bilateral pay- ments agreements with Albania, Brazil, China, Ghana, India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the former CMEA countries. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 419 open and maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad with the prior authorization of the NBR. Romanian natural persons and foreigners perma- nently domiciled in Romania may hold and utilize foreign means of payment in foreign exchange accounts opened with the authorization of the NBR in financial and banking institutions abroad. Natu- ral persons may also hold foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins or in accounts opened with commercial banks authorized to operate in Romania and, with the NBR's authorization, may freely use such foreign exchange to effect interna- tional current payments and capital payments. The deposits may also be exchanged for lei through the foreign exchange bureaus authorized to operate in Romania. Imports and Exports Import and export transactions were liberalized on May 1, 1992 and in general are not subject to licensing, except for a few consumer goods that are subject to quantitative restrictions, goods covered by international arrangements signed by Romania, and certain controlled strategic goods. Measures to curb imports may be taken by both the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the Ministry of Economy and Finance to protect the balance of payments, or for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security in accordance with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Import tariff rates are ad valorem, and the aver- age tariff, on a weighted-average basis, is estimated to have been about 12 percent in 1992. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All juridical economic agents may effect foreign exchange transfers for payments for invisible (or any international current account) transactions through authorized commercial banks. Commercial banks must verify, based on supporting documents, that the requested transfer is for bona fide current account purposes. Natural persons residing in Romania may take out of the country foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins up to a maximum amount equivalent to $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions (such as expenses for group or individ- ual travel, medical treatments or purchases of med- icines, participation in conferences, education, purchases of consumer goods for personal use, and payments for services); no documentation is required for amounts of $1,000 or less. Na tural persons must make all transfers exceed- ing $5,000 through banks. Transfers to banks abroad for current operations may also be made from the accounts of natural persons domiciled permanently in Romania and from the accounts of other Roma- nian juridical persons, except in special cases (as stipulated by law) requiring prior authorization from the NBR; such authorization is granted on a case-by-case basis. Banks may not limit the volume of bona fide current operations. The maximum amount of foreign exchange in the form of bank notes and coins that individuals may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $50,000 a person a trip. Those who are intending to stay in the country tem- porarily must declare the amount of foreign bank notes and coins exceeding the equivalent of $1,000; amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the country. The maximum amount of domestic bank notes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is lei 5,000 a person a trip in denomina- tions no larger than lei 1,000. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange and all capital transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the NBR. Capital transfers connected with inheritances, proceeds from the liquidation of capital assets owned by for- eign natural persons, and pension payments abroad are authorized by the NBR on the basis of permits issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Under the investment law that came into effect on May 3,1991, there are no limits on foreign equity participation in a commercial f irm set up in Roma- nia, and foreign investments may be made in all sectors of the economy, except where the environ- ment or Romania's national security and defense interests must be protected. Foreign investors can participate in the manage- ment of the investment operation or assign contrac- tual rights and obligations to other Romanian or foreign investors. In addition, foreign investors can transfer abroad (1) the entire amount of their share of profits earned in convertible currencies; (2) with the authorization of the fiscal authorities and the NBR, part of their share of annual profits earned in lei and converted into convertible currency, equiva- lent to up to 15 percent of their participation in the capital of the firm; (3) the total or partial proceeds in convertible currencies from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of investments; and (4) the proceeds in lei from the liquidation of investments in freely convertible currencies, in three annual installments. Imported machinery, equipment, installations, means of transport, and any other goods in kind ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 420 ROMANIA constituted as participation of the foreign investor are exempt from custom duties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advantages. Gold The NBR has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. It, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. Natural persons may, without restriction, own gold jewelry and artistic and cultural objects for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement May 4. Foreign exchange regulations were liber- alized, as follows: (1) 100 percent retention of for- eign exchange proceeds was allowed; (2) resident juridical persons were given free access to the interbank foreign exchange market (consisting of auctions and operations unde r taken outside the auctions, depending on the amount of the transac- tion) in which foreign exchange may be purchased and sold without restriction; (3) the exchange rate of the lei against the U.S. dollar would be deter- mined through foreign exchange auctions, based on free bids and offers; and (4) the overall limit on foreign exchange purchases resident na tural per- sons may purchase from the exchange bureaus for purposes of travel abroad was raised from lei 50,000 to lei 100,000 a person a year. Imports and Exports January 1. With a few exceptions, import-licensing requirements were abolished. A new tariff code with lower and less dispersed rates went into effect. May 1. With a few exceptions, export- and import- licensing requirements were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION1 (Position as of April 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Russian Federation is the Ruble, the external value of which is determined in auctions held at the Moscow Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange (MICEX).2 The U.S. dollar is the only currency traded in the MICEX.3 The Central Bank of Russia (CBR) participates in the MICEX mainly as a seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rates. The CBR occasionally buys foreign exchange through direct dealings on the interbank market outside the auctions. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the CBR. The exchange rate is announced by the CBR at noon on the day of the auction and it becomes effective on the following day so as to allow for the time needed for the trans- mission of the information to the branches of the CBR throughout the country. The exchange rate announced by the CBR is used for accounting and taxation purposes, the valuation of foreign exchange surrendered to the Currency Reserve Fund of the Russian Federation, sales of foreign exchange to the Ministry of Finance, conversion of foreign currency into rubles by nonresidents for deposit on special accounts, and the calculation of budgetary subsidies on centralized imports. The CBR quotes exchange rates of the ruble for the ECU and 26 currencies on the basis of the ruble-U.S. dol- lar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the lrThe Russian Federation became a member of the IMF on June 1,1992. 2 MICEX is a joint stock company of foreign exchange dealers, with the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) as a shareholder. At the end of 1992, MICEX had 78 members, consisting of banks and other nonbank institutions that have been granted licenses by the CBR to undertake foreign currency transactions. During 1992, CBR foreign exchange licenses were of three kinds: internal licenses, which allow a bank to deal in foreign exchange inside the Russian Federation, including establishment of foreign exchange bureaus, and to open correspondent accounts in the banks of the states of the former U.S.S.R. abroad; licenses that allow banks to open six foreign correspondent accounts in addi- tion to correspondent accounts in former Soviet banks abroad and to deal in up to six currencies; and general licenses, which allow banks to carry out the fu ll range of foreign exchange oper- ations, including portfolio transactions. At the end of 1992, 428 banks had foreign exchange licenses, of which 69 possessed gen- eral licenses and 336 possessed internal licenses. MICEX receives a commission in U.S. dollars of 0.1 percent on net purchases of U.S. dollars and a commission in rubles of 0.1 percent on net purchases of rubles. 3 Since February 1993, the deutsche ma rk has been traded on Wednesdays. international market on the day preceding auctions. There are no official quotations of nonconvertible currencies, but the CBR provides information to the banks on these rates for accounting purposes on a monthly basis. The CBR calculates the (former) Gosbank exchange rate of the ruble, the so-called official exchange rate (about rub 0.6 per US$1), as a unit of account for the valuation of external claims of the former U.S.S.R. and related transactions. (The official rate was defined by Gosbank in relation to a currency basket of six convertible currencies, and the value of that unit of account therefore fluctuates with the exchange rate of those currencies.) An interbank, mainly noncash, market operates outside the MICEX auctions. Authorized banks may trade on behalf of their customers and on their own accounts in this market.4 The exchange rates for cash transactions sometimes vary 5-10 percent from the noncash transactions owing to ineffective arbitrage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector, and there are no offi- cial regulations governing forward transactions in the private sector. Administration of Control The responsibility for regulating foreign trade and exchange transactions is shared by the CBR, the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER), the Inspectorate of Currency Con- trol, the Federal Service of Currency and Exchange Control, the State Tax Service, and the State Customs Committee. The CBR is responsible for administer- ing exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring the transactions of authorized banks, including accounting procedures for the revaluation of foreign currency items, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange positions. It has delegated to the authorized banks the responsibility for enforcing the surrender requirement; the CBR, the Inspectorate of State Control, and the State Tax Service monitor 4 On November 10, 1992, the CBR instructed banks to report their foreign exchange transactions and positions and to submit a written explanation if the exposure was too large. The practice of the CBR has been to limit the banks' exposure to plus or minus $1 million, with the requirement that the position would be squared at the next auction. As of December 31,1992, the CBR had not yet issued the regulations governing commercial banks' foreign exchange exposure. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 RUSSIAN FEDERATION the banks' enforcement. The Ministry of Finance supervises compliance with regulations concerning export quotas, licensing, and transactions in precious metals and unprocessed precious stones. The State Tax Service supervises the payment of taxes on income in foreign currencies, and the State Customs Committee supervises the payment of export and import taxes. The Law of the Russian Federation on Currency Regulations and Currency Controls stipulates that the Supreme Soviet is responsible for the formation of the Government's foreign exchange reserves. Authority for changing the rules for the mandatory sale of foreign exchange from export earnings rests with the President of the Russian Federation. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52-51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the Russian Federation notified the IMF on April 1, 1993 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Russian Federation's payment and settle- ment arrangements with other countries were con- ducted in 1992 on the basis of the principle that trade should be valued at world prices and settled in freely convertible currencies unless otherwise stated in intergovernmental agreements. Existing official payment arrangements fall into three cate- gories: (1) payment arrangements related to trade, (2) payment arrangements related to intergovern- mental credits, and (3) payment arrangements re- lated to foreign investment. Payment arrangements in credit and investment agreements may affect cur- rent account transaction in that payments may be effected in kind and at nonmarket exchange rates. At present, the Russian Federation maintains bilat- eral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, and Slovenia. Agree- ments with Afghanistan, Cuba, Egypt, India, and the Syrian Arab Republic specify clearing currencies for the payment of merchandise trade according to indic- ative commodity lists and of technical assistance. Pay- ments for technical assistance to Albania, Cambodia, China, India, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongo- lia, and Viet Nam are effected in convertible currency or by credit repayable in kind. Receipts from Albania and Mongolia in convertible currency are deposited in special accounts for payment of Russian imports only. When specific agreements do not exist or trade takes place outside the framework of the agreements, settle- ments are effected in convertible currency. In principle, settlements among the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be made through correspondent accounts of commercial banks. In practice, most pay- ments are effected through the central banks of these states and their respective branches through a sys- tem of bilateral correspondent accounts; balances in these accounts may not be settled multilaterally. At the end of 1992, the Russian Federation had accumu- lated a sizable surplus denominated in rubles with all of the states except Lithuania. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Natural and juridical persons may open foreign currency accounts at authorized banks. Resident natural persons may maintain bank accounts abroad only while they work abroad; otherwise, they must obtain permission from the CBR. Resi- dent juridical persons may not maintain accounts abroad, including branches of Russian banks, with- out special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses. Since August 1992, Rus- sian banks have not been allowed to open corre- spondent accounts in the states of the former U.S.S.R., except in Estonia (since June 20, 1992), Latvia (since July 20, 1992), Lithuania (since Octo- ber 1,1992), and Ukraine (since November 19,1992) following the introduction of national currencies/ coupons in these countries. In practice, banks that had correspondent accounts before August 6, 1992 are not obliged to close them. Nonresidents' use of accounts denominated in ru- bles at authorized banks is restricted. Nonresidents may open three types of ruble-denominated ac- counts: "L," "N," and "R" accounts. Dividends, in- terest income, and proceeds from sales of securities may be credited to "L" accounts, and balances used freely, including for purchases of foreign exchange for the same transactions as permitted to residents. Deposits in "N" accounts consist of receipts from ser- vices rendered, proceeds from sales of merchandise that have been performed by resident intermediar- ies, and consular fees; balances in these accounts may be used to pay for maintenance expenses (in- cluding wages) but may not be converted into for- eign exchange. Deposits in "R" accounts consist mainly of receipts from sales of foreign exchange to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 423 the CBR and proceeds from sales of goods specially authorized by the CBR. Balances may be used mainly for maintenance expenses (including wages), payment of taxes, and purchases of goods necessary for business operations; these goods may not be re- exported. Balances may also be converted into for- eign exchange up to amounts that had previously been transferred from abroad and converted into ru- bles. The total amount of deposits in "R" accounts may not exceed rub 50 million a year unless autho- rized by the CBR. Residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. that use the ruble as national currency may maintain ruble-denominated accounts and use them for all transactions, except direct and portfolio invest- ment, real estate purchases or investments, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Exports Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medi- cines and pesticides, and industrial waste. Import quotas are applied to certain products. A customs duty of 15 percent is levied on most goods; the duty on other goods ranges up to 150 percent. Foodstuffs, medicines, inputs for production of medicine, medi- cal supplies and equipment, equipment used for sci- entific research, printed materials, children's clothing, and inputs and equipment imported for the production of joint ventures are exempt from these duties. Imports from the least developed countries are exempt from customs duties, and the customs duties on imports from other developing countries are reduced by one-half. Imports from Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, which have, or are in the process of negotiating, free trade agreements with the Russian Federation are exempt from the import tariff, although these agreements have not yet become effective. Imports from Ukraine (for which trade takes place under a so-called most- favored-nation agreement) have also been exempted according to a bilateral agreement. Individuals who import goods valued at less than $10,000 and auto- mobiles for their personal use that they do not resell within two years do not have to pay customs duties.5 Exports are undertaken under a regime of export quotas and export licensing. In addition, exports of raw materials considered strategically important 5 In January 1993, a new d ra ft law on the customs tariff was discussed in Parliament and expected to be implemented in March 1993. are effected through approved intermediaries (so- called special exporters, consisting of state trade associations and sectoral associations). A limited number of goods, mainly determined by the Minis- try of Environment, are exported only under a licensing regime. Both regimes apply to exports to all countries. Quantitative restrictions on exports of products considered essential and requiring adequate domes- tic supplies are enforced through a system under which only approved intermediaries are authorized to export particular products.6 Quotas apply to exports of energy products and other raw materials, but exemptions are granted to certain products in these categories and to products exported by certain regions. The list of intermediaries is revised periodi- cally by the MFER. The list in effect on January 1, 1993 included 17 product groups, mainly oil and gas, ferrous and nonferrous metals, mineral fertilizers, wood products, fish and fish products, hydrocarbon raw materials, sulphur, ammonia, methanol, apatite, and synthetic rubber. There are four types of export quotas: Type I quo- tas for the state, Type II quotas for regional govern- ments, Type III quotas for specific producers and organizations, and Type IV quotas7 for auctioning. Type I quotas may not be sold unless they are underutilized. Type II and Type III quotas are issued against export certificates that are valid for three months and may be sold. Since February 17, 1992, entities in regions that produce oil and gas were allo- cated regional quotas amounting to 10 percent of the overall quotas for oil, gas, and their products for the purpose of earning foreign exchange. Allocated quo- tas were exceeded, sometimes by wide margins, and additional quotas were granted to enterprises, who used the earned convertible currency for their own needs, and to foreign trade associations for purchas- ing raw materials or replenishing the Currency Reserve Fund. Export licenses are issued in accordance w i th application procedures established by the MFER and are required for all exports covered by the quota regime and for a limited number of other products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, cer- tain food products, wildlife, medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medicines, and 6 Presidential Decree No. 628 of June 14,1992. Rich intermedi- ary is allowed a specific list of exports. Intermediaries are allowed to charge a commission of between 0.5 percent and 2 percent, depending on the product. 7 In 1992, Type IV quotas covered mixtures of oil products, waste paper, textiles for export to the EC, scrap ferrous metals, and medicinal raw materials of plant and an imal origins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 424 RUSSIAN FEDERATION minerals). Enterprises may be issued General Export Licenses, which allow them to export, dur- ing one calendar year, any product included in a commodity subgroup as defined in the Commod- ity Nomenclature for Foreign Economic Activity (TN VES), or a onetime license may be issued to them, under which the shipment of products under specific export contracts may take place within one year. Joint ventures with foreign capital equity ownership of more than 30 percent are allowed to export without a license. Export duties are levied on about one hundred product groups.8 Specific duties are denominated in ECUs and range from ECU 1 to ECU 100,000 a ton. Ad valorem duties of 20 percent apply to goods in food products groups. Specific duties on goods exported under barter trade arrangements are 30 percentage points higher, as are specific duties on exports that are not subject to the 50 percent sur- render requirement to the Currency Reserve Fund. Duties on goods exported to the states of the former U.S.S.R. may be paid in rubles, and on goods exported to other countries, in any of the currencies quoted by the CBR, using CBR exchange rates pre- vailing on the day the payment for the goods is made. Raw material exports are exempt from the duties. Export duties on particular products, on goods produced in particular regions or plants or under particular arrangements, or for particular purposes may also be exempt from the duties on a case-by-case basis. Export duties are payable when the goods cross the border, but payments may be postponed for up to 60 days if a bank guarantee for the subsequent payment is provided. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, and residents may purchase foreign exchange for all bona fide invisible transactions from authorized banks with proper documentation. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign bank notes a person may take out of the country, but for amounts exceeding $500 a certificate from the authorized bank is required by the customs authorities. The use of internationally accepted credit cards issued by domestic banks to customers who have foreign currency accounts is not restricted. In principle, the transfer of income from invest- ments by nonresidents is subject to restriction on the basis of the currency in which the income is received. In practice, income from investments may 8 Presidential Decree No. 629 of June 14, 1992 and Decision of the Government No. 461 of June 30,1992. be transferred abroad without restriction if invest- ments are made with foreign exchange remitted from abroad and income is received in foreign cur- rency. Income on investments received in rubles by nonresidents must be credited to "L" accounts, and may be reinvested freely or converted into foreign exchange for the purpose of conducting all transac- tions that residents are permitted to make. Proceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services, are subject to the surrender requirement. Capital In principle, capital transfers abroad, with the exception of repayments of foreign loans by resi- dents and the re-exportation of capital by nonresi- dents, must be authorized by the CBR. In practice, no restrictions have been enforced on outward capi- tal transfers by residents and nonresidents. External borrowing by juridical persons is subject to control. Both resident and nonresident juridical persons have the right to import or transfer foreign exchange to the country without restriction, pro- vided that they observe the regulations. Foreign bor- rowing by nonresident juridical persons is subject to a license. Borrowing by banks possessing a general operating license does not require a license. Nonresi- dent juridical persons may transfer abroad foreign currency assets up to the amount previously im- ported. Nonresidents may buy or sell foreign cur- rency assets in exchange for rubles through "R" and "L" accounts. Investment in Russian enterprises by nonresidents through joint ventures or through out- right ownership is not restricted. In principle, for- eign investment in land, real estate, and other sectors of national economic importance is permitted. Non- residents may transfer foreign exchange to the coun- try without restriction for deposit to foreign currency accounts. For investment purposes, balances in for- eign currency accounts may be converted into rubles only through the CBR, not through "R" accounts, as balances in "R" accounts are not allowed to be used for investment. In practice, therefore, foreign invest- ment takes the form of a transfer to a foreign cur- rency account of a resident, who in turn may convert it into rubles as needed without restriction. Enter- prises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of Economy, and investments exceeding rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rights and privileges with regard to prop- erty ownership and economic activities as those ac- corded to residents. Foreign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 425 cases in accordance with legislation, and in such cases the investor is entitled to compensation. Ruble balances held by nonresidents are not allowed to be used for direct or portfolio invest- ment in the country, including real estate invest- ments, or be converted into foreign exchange in the foreign exchange market in the country. (Residents of the states of the former U.S.S.R. that have intro- duced national currencies are treated as nonresi- dents for this purpose.) Gold There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold, except that monetary gold intended to be part of the country's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR at world prices quoted on the London market converted at the market exchange rate. Exports of gold and swaps require a license, and to date only Vneshtorgbank has this license. The license for each transaction is issued by the CBR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 201.39 per SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the midpoint between buying and selling exchange rates set by the National Bank of Rwanda (the cen- tral bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The exchange rates for foreign currencies in the SDR basket are based on the U.S. dollar value of these currencies, as published one business day earlier on the London market. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on their value against the Belgian franc, as published one business day earlier by the National Bank of Belgium. On December 31, 1992, the spot buying and selling rates for delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar were RF 144.81 and RF 147.73, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent below and 1 percent above the mid- point, respectively (±2 percent for bank notes). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign bank notes. Purchases of traveler's checks are subject to a commission of RF 550 for amounts below RF 10,000, RF 800 for amounts from RF 10,000 to RF 50,000, and RF 700 plus 2 per mil for amounts above RF 50,000. Other outward and inward transfers are subject to a commission of 3 per mil, with a minimum of RF 200 and a maxi- mum of RF 5,000. Since March 1990, the National Bank of Rwanda has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside the official channel. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to autho- rized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the central bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Burundi, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimba- bwe) are made through the PTA's clearinghouse. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency quoted by the central bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Bel- gian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign pay- ments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the central bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa and all imports of narcotics are prohibited. Imports of all other goods have been permitted under an open license (OGL) system since July 1, 1992, and foreign exchange is provided upon request. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the competent authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poi- sons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. The central bank levies a validation fee of 1 percent of the f.o.b. value on import licenses that involve use of official foreign exchange or that are subject to inspection by international agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 per mil. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the central bank through an autho- rized bank. The approval of an import license appli- cation constitutes authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. Since March 1990, the central bank has also authorized imports of goods financed with foreign exchange outside official channels. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 427 The central bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure the firms' continuous operation; these licenses are valid for three months (six months for vehicle parts). License applications are examined at the central bank to prevent overinvoicing. Dealers of imported automobiles are required to provide maintenance for the vehicles they sell. Used automobiles can be imported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer must guarantee the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin before shipment. Prices are verified at the same time. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the cen- tral bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The import tariff regime is governed by the tariff code of August 30,1991. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the central bank is required for all payments for invisibles. The central bank sells foreign exchange through authorized banks for transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and exports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except for payments through documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be arranged with a local insurance company established under Rwanda law. Transfers of the salaries and wages earned by for- eign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and after deduction of local expenses. These expenses are calculated by one of two formulas, at the employee's option: (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay after tax and social security contributions, with a minimum of RF 50,000 a month; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of self-employed foreign nationals, whether engaged in a profession or established as indepen- dent traders, are also made net of taxes and af ter deduction of local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is lev- ied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a minimum of RF 750. Net profits and dividends owed to nonresi- dents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the central bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Only traveler's checks in UAPTAs (Units of Account of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States) are issued to travelers to PTA member states. Foreign account holders traveling in the PTA region may purchase foreign forms of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTAs. Sales of these checks are subject to pre- vailing exchange regulations. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the cen- tral bank. Travel for business and official purposes is restricted to the essential minimum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one full-fare economy-class airline ticket during every two years of actual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is permitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full-fare ticket. Remit- tances for payments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for exports must be pre- sented to the central bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank, which also reserves the right to determine the con- ditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be collected no later than 30 days a f ter the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to exports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the central banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of their collection. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 Proceeds from Invisibles RWANDA All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within eight days of their collection. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to import domestic bank notes. The law requiring that travelers declare foreign exchange on entering Rwanda was abolished on December 1, 1990. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the central bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless transfers relate to foreign investments in Rwanda or to the personal effects of foreign nationals returning to their own countries, provided that these effects have been bought with foreign exchange and sold to a resident national. Transfers of dividends to foreign shareholders are allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the central bank in respect of short-term capital inflows; licenses for retransfer of these foreign cur- rencies are valid for one year but may be extended at the request of the beneficiary of the financing. Transfers of proceeds from sales of real estate are suspended. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement June 10. The exchange rate of Rwanda francs against the SDR was adjusted from RF 171.18 per SDR 1 to RF 201.38 per SDR 1. Imports and Import Payments July 1. An OGL system for imports was intro- duced, under which foreign exchange is provided upon request for all goods, with the exception of a limited list of items. Goods on the exemption list require special licenses for reasons of national secu- rity or health. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 2 percent is lev- ied on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3,1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency accounts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resid- ing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and may be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM).2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are permitted on presentation of documentary evi- dence of purchase to a bank, but payments in cur- rencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange con- trol approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documen- tary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona f ide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, pro- vided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. Export pro- ceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar foreign currency ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Luc ia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS account. Duties are levied on exports of sugar and certain other products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets with the permission of the Min- istry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by nonresidents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permit- ted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold either for numismatic or industrial purposes. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments October 29. The CARICOM member countries agreed to a new Common External Tariff (CET) to be implemented in stages beginning on January 1, 1993 and ending on January 1, 1997 at the earliest. The main features of the CET are the following: (1) all tar iffs will be lowered to 5-20 percent from 0-45 percent by January 1, 1997; (2) the CET rate will be lowered to 0-5 percent in respect of imports from the less developed countries in the CARICOM (i.e., Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines); (3) the tar iff reductions will be implemented in stages during the f irst six months of the year; in the first six- month period beginning January 1993, the tar iff range will be lowered to 5-30 percent (Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago will lower the range to 0-35 percent); and (4) there will be some excep- tions to the general rule, the most important of which is that the tar iff rate on agricultural imports will remain at 40 percent until the negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade are completed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident (External) Accounts The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6994 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1 percent. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 30,1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Statistics, and Negotiating and applies to all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade; those for agricul- tural products are issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARI- COM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other coun- tries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency other than that of the country to which payment is to be made. External accounts may be opened for nonresident individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only with foreign draf ts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes. As funds in an external account are normally con- vertible into a foreign currency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require exchange control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A foreign currency account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or insti- tution) wishing to open a foreign currency account must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired for- eign currency. All payments from a foreign cur- rency account require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. ^he Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. All goods, except certain agricultural and manufac- tured products, may be imported without a license. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless they are imported from CARICOM 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 ST. LUCIA countries. The importation of selected consumer items (e.g., rice, flour, and sugar) in bulk form is a state monopoly. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. Goods produced or manufactured in the CARI- COM region may be imported du ty free. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items include most imports from CARICOM and the mem- ber countries of the Organization of Eastern Carib- bean States (OECS), certain imports for use in industry, agriculture, fishing, air and sea transport (under industrial incentive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aid Ordinance and Fis- cal Incentives Ordinance. The rates of import du ty in the OECS tariff vary from 5 percent on certain basic food items to 70 percent on bay rum and fire- arms. A customs service charge of 2 percent of the c.i.f. value is levied on all imports except fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.20 percent. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax that is based on the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. Per- sons traveling within the CARICOM area using CAR- ICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency) receive the basic allowance of EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARI- COM area and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Insurance premiums are taxed as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for resi- dents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresident companies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities may be exported to any destination without a license. Proceeds must, in principle, be surrendered. A duty at the rate of 2.5 percent of the f.o.b. value is levied on banana exports. A special fee of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coins are not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are not normally per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities and real estate situated abroad for private purposes. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Nonresidents who purchase property are taxed at a higher rate than are residents. Any resident who requires a loan from local sources must first have the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Applications for nonresident loans are submitted by the authorized dealer (or other finan- cial intermediary) to the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the applicant. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of January 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar, which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24,1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to autho- rized dealers the au thor i ty to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of l rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Angu i l la, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. Finance. They are maintained in Eastern Carib- bean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, remit- tances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign cur- rency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to external accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for pay- ments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transac- tions on these accounts are subject to the 1 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authori- zation of the Ministry of Finance; these accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad w i thout prior authorization from the Min- istry of Finance. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the Minis- try of Finance. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South A f r ica are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the Organization of Eastern Car- ibbean States (OECS)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen tary 4 The OECS comprises Antigua and Ba rbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vin- cent and the Grenadines. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES evidence and, where required, of the license. In 1992, import licenses covered about 10 percent of the total import value. Advance payments for imports require prior approval from the Ministry of Finance. The import tar iff rates range from zero to 45 percent. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a consumption tax, which ranges from 5 percent to 50 percent and is levied on the tariff-inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from the member countries of the CARI- COM are exempt from import tar iffs and are sub- ject only to the consumption tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medical treatment, education, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 must be approved by the Ministry of Finance, and approval is granted routinely. Residents may pur- chase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel out- side the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount of not more than EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations may be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are autho- rized by the Ministry of Finance when a local med- ical practitioner presents a written statement of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treatment. The amount of local currency that travelers may take out is limited to EC$50 a trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originat- ing in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not they are purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions overseas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Documentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the ECCB area require the authori- zation of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. COM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to pre- vent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 percent export du ty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. Residents are normally not per- mitted to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad for private purposes. On presenting documentary proof that they are taking up permanent residence in a foreign coun- try, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Fi- nance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The transfer of sums is normally limited to EC$20,000 a year as is the transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already re- siding in a foreign country. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Grena- dines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liqui- dation proceeds from, such investment is permit- ted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CAR I- Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 435 Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments Janua ry 1, 1993 and to be completed on Janua ry 1, 1997. In the f irst phase, the ta r i ff range is to be reduced fo 0_35 percent April 6. An amended Customs Duties Act was promulgated. October 29. The member countries of the CARI- COM approved a new Common External Tariff (CET) to be implemented in stages beginning Changes During 1993 Payments for Invisibles January 1. The 1 percent tax on the exportation of domestic bank notes was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of San Marino is the Italian Lira.2 The central monetary institution is the Istituto di Credito Sammarinese, which is in the process of establishing its operations. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in Italian markets. San Marino formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 23,1992. Administration of Control When the Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations of May 1991 comes into effect, the Central Bank of San Marino will be a foreign exchange bank with the authority to grant foreign exchange dealer status to Sammarinese financial institutions; cur- rently, Sammarinese banks may maintain accounts only with financial institutions in Italy. As a result, foreign exchange transactions of domestic banks are effectively limited to buying foreign exchange, at rates similar to those quoted in Italy, and to con- ducting third-country transactions through Italian correspondents. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settle- ment effected through authorized Italian intermedi- aries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and the Postal Adminis- tration). Direct settlements (with residents drawing on their own external accounts) authorized under Italian Exchange Control Regulations in 1990 have not yet been utilized. 1 San Marino became a member of the IMF on September 23, 1992. 2 The Monetary Agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21,1991, provides for San Marino to issue annua l ly agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equivalent in form to I ta l ian coinage; these coins will be legal tender in both countries. (This agreement has not yet been approved by the Ital- ian Parliament.) The San Marino gold scudo is also issued but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is not generally used in trans- actions because its numismatic va lue exceeds its defined legal va lue (Lit 50,000 per 1 scudo). Settlements with foreign countries are made in convertible currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. San Marino does not maintain any bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts; in practice, deposit accounts other than in lire are not offered by domestic banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Italy are not subject to restriction, whereas imports from third countries are subject to control by the relevant Italian regulations. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transactions. Trade is free of regulation except that the importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Imports into Italy are currently governed by Decree No. 40 of December 22,1972, as amended. Customs duties on imports from non-EC member countries are collected by the EC customs authori- ties on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian value-added tax, but the average effective rate is about 4 percent lower. Sales tax levied on imports is rebated when the goods are re-exported. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds are not subject to surrender requirements. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports. Exports to Italy are not regulated, while exports to third countries are governed by relevant Italian regulations. Exports from Italy are currently gov- erned by Decree No. 40 of December 22, 1972, as amended. Exports to any country of products listed in Decree No. 68 require export licenses; other exports do not require authorization. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO 437 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not regulated. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Foreign direct investments, irrespective of the extent of owner- ship, require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. The purchase and ownership of real property by nonnationals require approval from the Council of Twelve, and approval is granted on merit and on a case-by-case basis. There are no restrictions on the repatriation of profits or capital. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms; that is, invest- ment incentives that are available to domestic investors are equally available to foreign investors. Gold International trade in gold is governed by the Italy-San Marino Agreement on Financial and Exchange Relations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, the external value of which is pegged to a basket of currencies of the country's nine major trading partners. The authori- ties follow a crawling peg policy. The intervention currency for the dobra is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar (the middle rate) was Db 375.54 per US$1. Rates for certain other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purpose of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the arrangements are as follows: when a letter of credit is opened, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission of 0.5 percent to the Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe. A stamp du ty of 0.35 percent is also pay- able, as well as a postage levy of Db 140. Any change in the letter of credit carries a fur ther charge o fD b 2 5 0. On foreign checks for collection, a commission is applied in favor of the collecting foreign correspon- dents and varies from bank to bank. In addition, the Central Bank charges a postage levy of Db 90 for each transaction, together with an endorsement stamp fee of Db 30. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 44 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.25 percent is charged when the letter of credit is opened and a fee of 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addi- tion, a postage levy of Db 1,200 is also charged. There are noarrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions come under the control of the Central Bank, which applies the exchange controls flexibly and permits exceptions to the stated limits on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through this bank, with the exception of a 30 percent retention of earnings by producer-exporters for import payments purposes (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Cape Verde. Transactions under this payments agreement have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as receipts and payments for various services and transfers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other recip- rocal noninterest credits of $200,000; it also states that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbal- ance will be redressed by appropriate trade transac- tions between the two parties. Imports and Import Payments Registered importers (including all productive entities) holding approved import licenses are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Fuels and lubri- cants are imported by the public fuel enterprise, and medicines by the public pharmaceutical enterprise and the private pharmaceutical sector. Import licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce and must be approved by the Central Bank for purposes of exchange cover. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Registration Bulletins, which are valid for six months but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply of consumer goods and economic develop- ment requirements. When importers open letters of credit, they are required to lodge a non-interest-bear- ing deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of the letters of credit; the 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 439 remainder may be financed with a 120-day loan from the Central Bank. Prepayment for imports is permit- ted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for other invis- ibles are approved within limits established by the Central Bank. These limits, which allow for addi- tional amounts in justifiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are inadequate; (2) transfers of remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, and costs of communication with foreign countries. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for purposes of tourism are limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic cur- rency. Private citizens are permitted to travel abroad only once every three years. However, trav- elers for business purposes are permitted to pur- chase tickets up to five times a year. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe before independence have been suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals and books or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to the equivalent of Db 300,000. Transfers of pension payments or social security pay- ments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been receiving such allowances before 1980. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a student is granted permission to transfer up to the equivalent of Db 15,000 a month, or Db 40,000 a quarter, for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts must be approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2.5 percent, or 5 percent when pay- ments are made through telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 90 is payable on all transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. All export proceeds must be collected through the Central Bank. However, producers of exported goods may retain 30 percent of export proceeds in accounts with correspondent banks of the Central Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Investment Code, which was implemented on October 15, 1992. Foreign capital investments are permitted on the same basis as domestic invest- ment. Prospecting and extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries are excluded. Up to 15 percent a year of investment profits may be repa- triated. Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector invest- ments in activities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance pro- grams are allowed to transfer their savings in accor- dance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authorization from the Central Bank. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control August 1. The Central Bank of Sao Tome and Principe was established. Capital October 15. A new investment code was intro- duced. It permits foreign direct investments in all sectors except hydrocarbons and other mining industries and repatriation of capital with authori- zation. Annual transfers of profits would be restricted to 15 percent of the invested capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Ara- bian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 per SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 percent around the fixed relation- ship are allowed; these margins were suspended on July 22, 1981. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; its rate against the riyal is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. On Decem- ber 31,1992, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.745 per US$1; the selling rate for U.S. dollars to banks was SRls 3.750 per US$1, and the buying rate from banks was SRls 3.740 per US$1. These rates, which have not changed since June 1, 1986, serve as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.125 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial bank- ing sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks of up to 12 months. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22,1961. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for rea- sons of religion, health, or security. Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between zero and 12 percent, while a short list of imports is subject to a rate of 20 percent, and tobacco products, to a rate of 30 percent. Imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempt, pro- vided that at least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51 percent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Certain imported items that are subsidized by the Government may not be re-exported. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian bank notes and coins. Administration of Control Capital In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Saudi Arabia notified the Fund on September 15, 1992 that, in compliance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. 1 In addition, all imports from and all exports to these coun- tries are prohibited; payments may neither be made to them nor received from them for any type of transaction, whether current or capital. No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval before floating loans denominated in riyals. Local banks are required to obtain the approval of the Monetary Agency before inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or outside Saudi Ara- bia. Prior approval from the Monetary Agency is also required for local banks to participate in either riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad or for- eign-currency-syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Pro- tection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital invested in industrial or agricultural projects 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 441 with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, , ,. . . and without paying any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form, except manu- factured gold and jewelry, which are subject to a 12 percent customs duty; gold of 14 karats or less may not be imported. SENEGAL (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rate is CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate in the Paris exchange market for the currency concerned and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO no longer levies a commission on transfers to and from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).2 Banks charge an exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill on purchases and sales of for- eign exchange, depending on the amount, other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, all of which must be surrendered to the Treasury There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is avail- able to residents only for imports of a specified cat- egory of goods. All forward cover against exchange rate risk must be authorized by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Forward cover against exchange rate risk can be provided only in the cur- rency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of foreign exchange settlement stipulated in the commercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of forward cover may be extended one time for up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Camer- oon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to l rThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are free of commission. these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit, which has delegated a part of the approval authority for exchange control to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Handicrafts issues export authorizations and prior import authorizations for listed products. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone may be settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House arrangement. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through for- eign accounts in francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. These bank notes may be credited to a foreign account in francs opened by the foreign correspon- dent with an authorized bank in Senegal. Foreign accounts in francs may be debited, without prior 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 443 authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored-nation treatment of all Senegal's commercial partners was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restric- tions and prior authorization requirements for cer- tain imports are now based only on the type of product, not on the country of origin or transship- ment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agricultural policy, sanita- tion, or protection of certain products (cement, fertil- izers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c.i.f.). The exchange author- izations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange but not earlier than eight days before the goods are shipped to Senegal if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no doc- umentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports, with the exception of down payments, are permitted only after the proper documents for cus- toms clearance are submitted. Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the contrac- tual date of the payments. All imports, except those in transit and those intended for the free zone of Dakar, are subject to a service fee of 3 percent. All imports valued (f.o.b.) at more than CFAF 1.5 million are subject to inspec- tion by international agencies with respect to qual- ity, quantity, price, and tariff classification. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect abroad payments of up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange authorization submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); af ter their return to Senegal, they must surrender any unused foreign exchange. Applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applications for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Business travelers may receive a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but may not take out more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. A foreigner working in Senegal may transfer his full net salary upon presenting the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident trav- elers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, must declare to customs the amount they take out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, they are authorized to export foreign bank notes in amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 only up to the amount they declare on entry (minus sales of for- eign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases of up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, cereals, peanuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated precious met- als, articles made of these metals, precious metal products, and costume jewelry), exports do not require prior authorization. Certain nontraditional exports to nonmember countries of the West Afri- can Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SENEGAL an export subsidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Pro- ceeds from exports to foreign countries, including members of the WAMU and the Operations Account countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatriated through BCEAO not later than 1 month after the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of coun- tries outside the Operations Account Area. Resi- dents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require the approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance and Planning, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or offering for sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning; 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning before they are made. The Minister has two months from receiving the decla- ration to request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the authorization of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if it did not require authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Special facilities for export industries are established in the Dakar export processing zone. 3 Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 445 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by trav- elers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious, metals require authoriza- tion from the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Planning to conduct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization from the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Handi- crafts; imports of ornaments require the prior approval of the Directorate of Handicrafts and the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Indus- try, Commerce, and Handicrafts. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (including the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. The Cen- tral Bank of the Seychelles circulates these rates daily to the commercial banks. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the pound sterling were SR 9.4639 and SR 9.3694, respectively, per £s tg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent on pur- chases and 0.875 percent on sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in pounds sterling and other curren- cies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the Central Bank for the respective curren- cies. Commercial banks are required to transfer 15 percent of their gross inflows of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3,1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. The Minis- try of Finance controls foreign trade and domestic marketing through a mechanism of import and price controls. Import controls are exercised over prescribed goods by the Trade and Commerce Divi- sion of the Ministry of Finance, while price controls are administered by the Seychelles Licensing Authority on behalf of the Ministry. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports. Importers are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import/ Export Control section of the Ministry of Finance. Certain essential items (including sugar, flour, oil, margarine, rice, and animal feed) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade tax, at rates ranging from 10 percent to 375 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 percent to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally require licenses issued by the Impor t /Export Control Section of the Ministry of Finance. Residents may export goods to any coun- try without exchange control formality. There are no regulations governing the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited (trading is defined as both buying and selling). Foreign currency may be accepted by busi- nesses in payment for goods and services. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of foreign-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limitation. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent resi- dents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tions. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, additional investments in existing enti- ties in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 447 Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors, that is, agri- culture and fishing, manufacturing, construction, and tourism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are restricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has issued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Currency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 20 to commemorate the f i f th anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomination of SR 25 issued in April 1984 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in February 1986 to commemorate the United Nations Decade for Women; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 issued in June 1986 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence; (6) a coin in the denomi- nation of SR 1,000 issued in June 1987 to commemo- rate the tenth anniversary of the f i f th of June 1977 Liberation; (7) two coins in the denominations of SR100 and SR 1,000 issued in December 1988 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Central Bank; and (8) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 issued in April 1990 to mark EXPO '90 in Osaka, Japan. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone. Exchange rates are freely deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade among them- selves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (the central bank) on a freely negotiable basis. The central bank determines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, which is based on the weighted-aver- age rate of commercial bank transactions in the pre- vious week. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates were Le 534.25 and Le 545.24, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance, in consultation with the central bank, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the central bank with the assistance of the commercial banks. Applications for foreign exchange for invisible payments in excess of certain amounts are subject to the approval of the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with certain countries are subject to exchange control. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under a bilateral pay- ments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling or in U.S. dollars. The West African Clearinghouse provides for settle- ments with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified currency.1 Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts denominated in any convertible cur- rency with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. These accounts, for which no minimum balance has been stipulated, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad and may be debited to meet local expenditures of the account holder. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign cur- rency accounts are permitted for current transac- tions without prior approval from the central bank. Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accredited staff are designated as external accounts. In addition, there are blocked accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods originating from South Africa are prohibited. All other goods may be imported freely without a license. Authority to approve transactions is delegated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchases of foreign exchange for the importation of goods must be sup- ported by a pro forma invoice and must be submit- ted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources are permitted without letters of credit established with a local commercial bank. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the Government. A sales tax of 10 percent of the landed value is levied on all imports. 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 449 Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowances in excess of $5,000 a trip must be referred to the cen- tral bank for approval. Public sector employees on official business may take out foreign exchange from Sierra Leone up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign cur- rency notes they declared on arrival. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out with them up to Le 50,000 in Sierra Leonean currency notes. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tick- ets purchased locally and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Commercial banks are authorized to approve school fees up to the full amount payable directly to the school upon presentation of bills by the schools concerned. They may also approve, for each stu- dent studying abroad, educational and mainte- nance expenses of $10,000 a year, and medical treatment up to $10,000. Applications for payments in excess of the amounts prescribed must be made to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A maximum of 40 percent of an expatriate's gross salary may be remitted abroad for family mainte- nance purposes. At the end of their contract, for- eigners are allowed to remit all of their savings. Profits and dividends from foreign direct invest- ment may be repatriated, provided that it can be established from documentary evidence that capital was originally brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for six months, are issued by the Ministry of Resources. All exporters are required to complete CD2 forms, which should be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank and be reported to the central bank. Exports of the following articles are prohib- ited: those containing more than 25 percent silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, and pearls (excluding personal jewelry or orna- ments up to a value not exceeding the leone equiva- lent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Licensed exporters of diamonds are allowed to transact their business in U.S. dollars and must pay a valuation fee of 1.5 percent and an income tax of 1.5 percent, which are based on the value of the diamonds exported. All goods exported from Sierra Leone, except for those exempted by the Minister of Finance, are sub- ject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the Government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1 percent before clearing their goods through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Arriving nonresident travelers, unless exempted, are required to exchange $100 for domestic currency upon arrival in Sierra Leone. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone are required to obtain permission from the central bank to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by non- residents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control approval of the investment was obtained at the outset. The Sierra Leonean Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securi- ties. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securi- ties or the person for whom he serves as nominee resides outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities reg- istered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resid- ing abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordinance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act of 1983 pro- vide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must either sell their for- eign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer or hold a foreign currency account with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Exemption is granted for autho- rized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SIERRA LEONE held before June 24, 1972, for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the central bank. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securi- ties purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securi- ties exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national tempo- rarily residing in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the central bank. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement September 10. The amount of deposit required to operate a foreign exchange bureau was reduced to $5,000 from $25,000. Imports and Import Payments February 17. The ban on the importation of ciga- rettes was abolished, retroactive from February 1. August 1. The invoice entry fee on imports was abolished. Payments for Invisibles October 9. The amount of exchange allowance for travel that the commercial banks may provide with- out prior approval from the central bank was increased to $5,000 from $1,000. Public sector employees on official business travel were allowed to take out foreign exchange from Sierra Leone up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Nonresident travelers were allowed to take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers were allowed to take out with them up to Le 50,000 in Sierra Leonean bank notes. The exchange allowance for students studying abroad was increased from $7,200 a year to $10,000, and the allowance for medical treatment abroad was increased to $10,000 from $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The requirement that licensed diamond exporters must sell 20 percent of proceeds to the central bank was abolished. Exporters would be required to pay a valuation fee of 1.5 percent and an income tax of 1.5 percent based on the value of dia- monds exported. March 17. Exporters of marine products were no longer required to open letters of credit or surren- der their export proceeds to the central bank. The facility for exporters of nontraditional products to retain 100 percent of their export proceeds at the commercial banks was reconfirmed. Proceeds from Invisibles October 9. Arriving nonresident travelers would be required to convert $100 into domestic currency upon arrival unless specifically exempted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dol- lar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and its exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and all other currencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Mon- etary Authority of Singapore (MAS) monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, with the objec- tive of promoting noninflationary sustainable eco- nomic growth. The closing interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992, were S$1.6447 and S$1.6450, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are available throughout the working day and are based on the currencies' cross rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. Banks are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, matu- rity, or type of transaction. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an active short-term currency swaps market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in Sin- gapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9,1968. Administration of Control There are no formal exchange controls, but the MAS retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Trade Development Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import- and export-licensing requirements for a very small number of products under its control. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are duti- able. The highest duties are levied on liquors, tobacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a du ty of 5 percent or less ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Singapore is a party to the Agreement on the Common Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA). The CEPT Scheme came into operation on January 1, 1993, and Singapore does not impose duties on imports from other ASEAN countries, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are perma- nently excluded under the terms of the CEPT Scheme. Import licenses are required for rice, irre- spective of the country of origin, and for all imports originating in or consigned from Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. Licenses for imports from these countries are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that can be used for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports originating in Singapore —for example, textiles and textile products —are subject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff bar- riers in the importing countries, particularly the United States, Canada, Norway, and the members of the European Community. Export licenses are required for granite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no restriction on export proceeds. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 Proceeds from Invisibles SINGAPORE Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coins, including Singapore gold coins. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange controls in 1978, Singapore residents, including corporations, are allowed to make payments in all currencies to any country outside Singapore without restriction. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks, merchant banks, and finance companies must consult the Monetary Authority of Singapore if they intend to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents; loans in excess of S$5 million to residents for use outside Singapore must have the approval of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with the Asian Currency Union because of the absence of mini- mum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An AMU is a separate accounting unit of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income; these units operate in the Asian Dollar Market. Transactions in Singapore dollars cannot be made in AMUs. There are no restrictions on either direct or port- folio investments in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Government approval is required for foreign investment in residential and other properties (including vacant land) that has not been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use. For- eigners may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more stories and in approved condominium developments without such approval. Foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of other residential properties for their own use and, in the case of for- eign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. The maximum limit on the pro- portion of foreign shareholding in local banks is 40 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and compa- nies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt in freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can also be traded on the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a "loco-London" basis in gold kilobars with a fineness of 995. Gold can also be traded in the local market in kilobars with a fineness of 999.9. Spot gold prices for settle- ment in Singapore are derived by adjusting the "loco-London" price with the location premium, which takes into account the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also avail- able on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments March 6. The prohibition on imports from South Africa was lifted. June 10. In accordance with the U.S. Security Council Resolution, all assets of the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) with financial institutions in Singapore were frozen, and transactions of these assets were subject to prior approval from the MAS. Changes During 1993 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The Common Effective Preferential Tariff (CEPT) Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) came into operation. As a member, Singapore eliminated duties on 373 items and will not impose duties on imports from other countries, with the exception of about 120 tariff lines that are permanently excluded under the terms of the CEPT Scheme. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC1 (Position as of January 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak Crown.2 The exchange rate of the crown is deter- mined in fixing sessions conducted by the National Bank of Slovakia. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Bank is responsible for the adminis- tration of exchange controls and regulations in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. In gen- eral, the Ministry of Finance has authority over governmental credits and over budgetary and sub- sidized organizations, civic associations, churches, foundations, and juridical persons who are not engaged in entrepreneurial activities. The National Bank has authority over the activities of all regis- tered enterprises and entrepreneurs. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from countries with which the Slovak Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments agreements may be effected in the currencies stipulated or in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements.3 In cases where specific bilateral agreements do not exist, or trade takes place outside the framework of the agreements, set- tlements are effected in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Slovak resident individuals (including unregis- tered entrepreneurs) may open interest-bearing for- l rThe Slovak Republic (and the Czech Republic) became a member of the IMF on Janua ry 1, 1993 through succession to the membership of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic. 2 Issued on February 4, 1993 following the dissolution of the currency union with the Slovak Republic, which had used the Czechoslovak koruna as currency. 3At the beginning of 1993, the Slovak Republic maintained bilateral payments agreements with Afghan is tan and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea. Provisional agreements exist with all member countries of the former Council for M u t u al Eco- nomic Assistance for purposes of settling outstanding balances and unfu lf i l led trade contracts. In the case of the states of the former U.S.S.R., the agreements also covered arrangements for payments for trade during 1992 through clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. eign exchange accounts at any resident commercial bank without revealing the source of foreign exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the account holder without restriction. Resident enterprises that had outstanding foreign exchange accounts on December 31, 1990 have been allowed to maintain such accounts; new foreign exchange accounts, however, may be opened by enterprises after December 31,1990 only with a prior permit that exempts enterprises from the 100 percent sur- render requirement. Balances on these accounts may be freely used to finance enterprises' activities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents (natural and juridical persons) may maintain two types of interest-bearing accounts: (1) Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in koruna. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make pay- ments in the Slovak Republic. All payments abroad from these accounts, except transfers relating to inheritance and alimony, require a permit from the National Bank. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by nonresidents. Foreign exchange may be deposited freely in these accounts, and payments may be made from these accounts, in the Slovak Republic or abroad, without restriction. Imports and Exports Imports and exports may be undertaken by any registered enterprise or private individual. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, namely, crude oil, natural gas, firearms and ammu- nition, and narcotics. In addition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by variable levies applies to imports of 12 agricultural products and coal. All imports, except those from the Czech Republic, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff, ranging, with a few exceptions, from zero to 15 percent. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the General- ized System of Preferences (GSP). Under the GSP, 42 developing countries benefit from a duty exemp- tion, and 80 others are granted a 75 percent reduc- tion from the applicable customs duties; tropical products are granted an 85 percent reduction from the applicable customs duties. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SLOVAK REPUBLIC A resident individual is required to repatriate for- eign exchange acquired abroad and to sell to a bank or deposit in a private foreign exchange account for- eign exchange (including gold, with the exception of gold coins) exceeding the equivalent of Sk 5,000. Res- ident enterprises are normally required to repatriate, without delay, foreign exchange receipts from exports and sell them to commercial banks. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal market nat- ural resources or imported raw materials (i.e., energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and construction materi- als). For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Fees are applied to noncommercial exports of a few products (certain food items and selected types of porcelain and glassware) in excess of a certain value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Slovak residents may withdraw an unlimited amount of foreign exchange from their foreign cur- rency accounts to make invisible payments. In addi- tion, residents are entitled to buy foreign exchange for traveling abroad, up to a maximum amount specified by the National Bank (currently, the equivalent of Sk 7,500 a year, payable in two parts over the two halves of the year). Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organiza- tions is subject to different allowances, depending on the country of destination. Transfers of alimony may be made to a country with which a reciprocal agreement has been concluded. A special permit is required in most instances for remittances relating to family maintenance, education, and medical treatment. Repatriation of wage savings by nonresident workers must be authorized by the National Bank. With certain exceptions related to tourism, exports and imports of the koruna bank notes and their transfer abroad, except to the Czech Republic, are permitted only with a foreign exchange license issued by the National Bank. Licenses are not required for the importation or exportation of for- eign exchange assets, including foreign currencies, by nonresidents. Capital Registered enterprises may freely obtain suppli- ers' credits and credits not related to trade abroad. Financial credits require a special permit from the National Bank. Foreign direct investments abroad are subject to approval from the National Bank; approval is normally granted if such investments are considered to facilitate exports from the Slovak Republic. There is no limit on equity participation by non- residents. Credits may be obtained from foreign banks with the approval of the National Bank. For- eign exchange equity participation of foreign inves- tors can be deposited in a foreign exchange account with a resident commercial bank. Foreign investors may freely transfer abroad their dividends, profits, capital gains, and interest earnings. In the event of liquidation of the enterprise, they are allowed to repatriate freely the fu ll value of their capital partic- ipation and capital gains in the original currency after payment of taxes. Transfers of inherited assets abroad are allowed to all countries on a reciprocal basis. Gold Residents are required to sell gold (with the exception of gold coins) to financial institutions dealing in foreign exchange within 30 days of acquisition. Without a foreign exchange license, nonresidents may export inherited gold coins, pro- vided that they submit a certificate confirming that the coins are of no historical value, and they may export gold that they have imported into the coun- try. To export any other gold, nonresidents must have a foreign exchange license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of Slovenia is the Tolar, which was introduced on October 8, 1991 and replaced the Yugoslav dinar at parity. The external value of the tolar is determined in the exchange market by demand and supply conditions. The Bank of Slove- nia (BOS) may also participate in the foreign exchange market and may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the Government and commercial banks. Residents may conduct unlim- ited exchange transactions among themselves, and households may conduct foreign exchange transac- tions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. The BOS does not prescribe spreads between buying and selling rates for banks' transactions with the public, and banks are free to set their own commissions. On December 31, 1992, the average exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tl 98.7005 per US$1. The BOS pub- lishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting pur- poses. There is no forward market for foreign exchange, but forward foreign exchange transac- tions are not prohibited. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange market operations are gov- erned by the Law on Foreign Exchange Business (promulgated on June 25,1991). The law introduced a free foreign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices and stipulated the rules and regulations for foreign exchange transactions. The d ra ft Law on Foreign Trade approved by Parlia- ment in March 1993 sets out the rules and regula- tions on foreign trade activities. Prescription of Currency Slovenia maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment with Croatia, under which trade between the two countries may be settled through accounts in local currency or in foreign currencies, and with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Resident individuals and nonresidents are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts without restriction. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts with the proceeds from sales of foreign exchange or of goods and ser- vices to residents. Balances (including accrued interest) in these accounts may not be converted into convertible currencies and repatriated unless they have been acquired through sales of foreign exchange by nonresidents or for settlement of indemnities, transfers of personal labor income paid to a foreign person employed by an enterprise in Slovenia,2 payments of insurance premiums, and transfers of inheritance. Domestic legal entities are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign cur- rency accounts; exceptions are provided for in the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. The acceptance of foreign cash payments, as well as paying with foreign cash by residents, is restricted. In accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Business, residents must obtain the BOS permit for the above-mentioned operations. Imports and Import Payments Licensing requirements in the form of permits have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammunition) for security and public health rea- sons. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to agricultural products and certain textile products. Under a system managed by the Chamber of Commerce, the quotas are frequently revised and allocated to importers who are not pro- ducers, with the exception of producers of textile products. In general, the quotas are distributed among the applicants in proportion to their expressed demand, as reflected in the volume of production (for a producer) or turnover (for a trader). Imports from the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. The tariff regime under the Customs Tariff Law of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is still in force with some modifications, but a new tar- iff law is under preparation. The main modifications 1PThe Republic of Slovenia (along with the Republic of Croatia) succeeded to the membership of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with effect from December 14,1992. 2 In these cases, tolars may be converted only into the currency of the country of the person's residence and under conditions of reciprocity. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 456 SLOVENIA are that the 7.5 percent import surcharge levied on certain products was abolished, and the rate of sur- charge on other products was reduced to 1 percent. At present, the customs duty rates range from zero to 25 percent and average 11 percent, excluding exemp- tions. A 1 percent general customs clearance fee is levied on all imports; the proceeds are used for insurance and export promotion. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisi- bles, except that residents are not allowed to transfer abroad receipts from services (including interest), and earnings must be spent in Slovenia. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited. Except for a short list of items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons, exports are not restricted. Exports of textile products to the Euro- pean Community (EC) are still treated as they were under the previous customs quota agreement between the EC and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Quotas are imposed by each import- ing EC member country until the EC quota is reached. Export taxes are levied on the following products: unprocessed wood, 15 percent; pro- cessed wood, 10 percent; and scrap metal, 25 percent. Exporters are free to agree on payments terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transaction must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely negoti- ated exchange rate or to use the proceeds for pay- ments abroad. After that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Exporters are entitled to the full refund of duties and surcharges paid on intermediate and semipro- cessed goods used to produce export goods, pro- vided that the value of exports is at least 30 percent higher than the value of imports. Export goods not meeting the 30 percent requirement or not using imported inputs benefit from an export drawback ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent of their value.3 3The drawback is intended as a restitution of import duties paid by the producer on direct and indirect imports of interme- diate goods; the percentage of drawback is equal to the tar iff- weighted sum of direct and indirect inpu t -ou tput coefficients. Credits to exporters of certain products are pro- vided at preferential interest rates. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on proceeds from invisibles. Capital In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreign Credit Transactions, resident juridical per- sons may borrow abroad on commercial terms with- out restriction. The Government may, however, issue guarantees and borrow abroad only in accordance with specific laws passed by Parliament. Resident juridical persons may maintain accounts abroad only in specific cases as provided for by law and with the permission of the BOS. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad. Resident companies may extend loans to nonresi- dent persons only with profits obtained from abroad. The Law on Foreign Investments of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is still being applied in Slovenia. A new law is under consideration. Deposit money banks are required to hold for- eign exchange deposits abroad as cover against domestically held foreign exchange deposits of domestic and foreign individual persons. The required deposits range from 5 percent to 90 per- cent, depending on the maturity of domestically held deposits. They are also required to hold depos- its abroad in an amount equal to 35 percent of their average monthly turnover of convertible payments over the preceding three months. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangements July 5. Forward exchange transactions were allowed. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The rate of surcharge (equalization tax) was increased to 8.5 percent from 7.5 percent. June 4. Certain intermediate and capital goods were exempted from the import surcharge. Tariffs on raw materials and intermediate goods were tem- porarily lowered by 50 percent, and those on capital goods were lowered by 80 percent, provided that these items are not produced in Slovenia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 457 November 1. The equalization tax on imports was reduced to 1 percent from 8.5 percent. Capital April 1. The ratios of foreign exchange deposits that deposit money banks are required to hold abroad as cover against domestically held foreign exchange deposits were changed to 5-90 percent, depending on the ma tur i ty of deposits. April 24. Commercial banks were allowed to extend foreign exchange credits to resident juridical persons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of its rela- tionship to a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands7 four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar against the U.S. dollar each month within margins of 0.5 percent above or below the middle rate prevail- ing at the end of the previous month. The Central Bank provides the commercial banks with daily lim- its on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in dealings with the public were US$0.3235 and US$0.3215, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other for- eign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of for- eign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. A forward cover facility exists mainly for bona fide trade or trade- related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent residents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Cen- tral Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars for periods of one to six months. The Central Bank also provides the commercial banks with daily limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commercial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to 10 basis points above or below the Central Bank's forward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement on July 24,1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank through the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1,1977. The Central Bank delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain types of applications for exchange control approval, up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange con- trol purposes, unless they have been granted tempo- rary resident status by an authorized dealer or the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved for citizens of foreign countries who intend to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or have already resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property or a business indicates permanent resident status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. Temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Solomon Islands notified the Fund, on October 14, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro). Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to persons resident outside Solomon Islands may be met only by payments in that currency. Export pro- ceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an over- seas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required in order for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, provided it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions without refer- ence to the Central Bank. 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Capital SOLOMON ISLANDS 459 Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of divi- dends, profits, and other earnings accruing to over- seas residents from companies in Solomon Islands, provided it can be shown they are properly due overseas. Permanent residents are permitted to pur- chase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing perma- nently outside Solomon Islands are permitted, pro- vided the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and airline tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange must be referred to the Central Bank.1 Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coins in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control formality, but they must comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this General Authority require that payments for exported goods be received within three months of the date of expor- tation, that the export price be no lower than the price an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive, and that the proceeds be sold promptly to an authorized dealer. If exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an autho- rized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditures. 1 With effect from J anu a ry 20, 1992, these limits were estab- lished at SI$5,000 a transaction, SI$5,000 a customer a week, and SI$25,000 a customer a year. On February 18, 1993, the limit on ind iv idual transactions was raised to SI$25,000. All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned investment capital, repayment of loans contracted overseas, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants7 funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. For portfo- lio investments, approval from the Central Bank is needed before permanent residents may acquire or dispose of foreign securities. Approval is not nor- mally given for the acquisition of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired before March 1,1977. Approval from the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity cap- ital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas must have approval from the Central Bank before it may bor- row funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. If initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the Foreign Invest- ment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 20. The foreign exchange position the com- mercial banks are allowed to hold at the close of each business day was reduced to SI$250,000. Payments for Invisibles January 20. The delegated authority of the com- mercial banks to provide foreign exchange without referring to the Central Bank was reduced to SI$5,000 a transaction, SI$5,000 a customer a week, and SI$25,000 a customer a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA1 (Position as of December 31, 1991) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Soma- lia's main trading partners. The official exchange rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the rela- tive rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. The official exchange rate applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the Government. The exchange rate in the free market is negotiated freely between resi- dent holders of foreign exchange accounts, that is, export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,2 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the two commercial banks operating as the autho- rized dealers of the Central Bank in respect of trans- actions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sec- tor. The commercial banks also do not conduct for- ward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although they are not prohibited from doing so. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency charged with imple- menting and operating trade controls. The state- trading organization, the National Grain Agency, is responsible for importing and distributing certain commodities received under aid programs. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (the U.S. dollar and others listed in footnote 2); 1 Since December 31, 1991, the IMF has not received from the Somali authorities the information needed for a description of the exchange and trade system. 2 Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arab ian rivals, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, inter- national institutions, and nonresidents. External accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both res- idents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be deb- ited for any external payment. Residents may trans- fer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between resi- dents and nonresidents taking place through exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers holding export/import accounts and may be used only for merchandise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jew- elry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The National Petroleum Agency is responsible for importing all fuels and fuel prod- ucts. Capable entrepreneurs in the private sector are permitted to import and distribute petroleum products provided that they have safe storage and distribution facilities. All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at a commer- cial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign cur- rency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a sus- 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 461 pense account until the time of settlement of the let- ter of credit. A non-interest-bearing cash advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds provided by the Italian Government under the Commodity Import Program are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit requests for foreign exchange, accompanied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount requested. Before June 1990, the official exchange rate applied to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceeded the available funds, for- eign exchange was allocated proportionally among importers. Since then these funds have been sold through a Dutch auction mechanism (bidders pur- chasing foreign exchange at their bid price), with the official exchange rate serving as the floor price. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for current invisibles through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to for- eign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be pur- chased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the fol- lowing limits: (1) education allowances, $1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, $200 a person a trip; and (3) medical treatment, $3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. All foreign travelers are required to pay an airport departure tax of $20 in foreign currency, and Somali nationals are required to pay the tax equivalent to $10 in domes- tic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The exportation of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval; the state monopoly in exports of hides and skins was discontinued in 1990. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70 percent of their export earnings. For exports other than those made under letter-of-credit arrangements, an advance pay- ment deposit of 100 percent of the value of exports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Exporters of services may retain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remain- der to the Central Bank or to authorized dealers within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 1,000 in Somali bank notes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the com- mercial banks at the official exchange rate. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Invest- ment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Invest- ment Law stipulates priorities for foreign invest- ments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from the transfer of convertible currency, in the form of machinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in con- nection with the intended investment). There are no outright and sectoral restrictions to foreign invest- ment or phase-out provisions; nor does the law pre- clude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 SOMALIA Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for approval in each case within a 60-day period by the Foreign Investment Board, which has final author- ity over all matters concerning foreign investment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which pro- vides advice and guidance to foreign investors on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional frame- work, and assists at the incorporation and setting- up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in convertible currency. There are no restrictions on reinvestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be transferred in any subsequent year. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after taxes are paid. The Foreign Investment Law restricts the possibility of expropriation to cases where public interest can- not be satisfied by other measures. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the investment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force between the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Convention for the Settlement of Investment Dis- putes. If no agreement is applicable, the law pro- vides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agree- ment or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, res- idents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that originate in member countries of the European Community are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but do intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1992, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were US$0.3275 buying and US$0.3273 selling, respectively, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to provide for- ward exchange cover in any foreign currency to res- idents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitment or accrual. Subject to certain limita- tions, forward exchange cover may also be pro- vided to nonresidents. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in the commercial rand forward market against U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for matu- rities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand- U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the U.S. dol- lar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term offshore financing of capital goods imports and affected indebtedness that has been converted into long-term loans. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The freely floating "financial" rand system (without the participation of Swaziland) operates with respect to (1) the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in South Afr ica owned by nonresi- dents, (2) capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, (3) approved outward capital trans- fers by residents, and (4) inward capital transfers by immigrants and certain inward investment cap- ital transfers. The exchange rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1992, the discount was about 37 percent. The closing midpoint exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1992 was US$0.2058 per R 1. The authorities may intervene in the market to inf lu- ence the rates quoted for the financial rand. South Afr ica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as f rom September 15,1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between South Africa and Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Namibia, Swaziland, Transkei, and Venda; these form, with South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated many of its powers to the authorized deal- ers. Import and export permits, where required, are generally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Ministers of Finance and of Trade and Industry. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, when advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documentary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.2 Settlements Authorized dealers can permit, w i thout the Reserve Bank's approval, advance payment of up to 33V3 percent of the ex fac- tory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it. Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland are freely convert- ible into rand, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Ma l- oti bank notes issued by Lesotho are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Afr ica. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SOUTH AFRICA by or to residents of the Common Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into nonresident accounts, financial rand accounts, and emigrant blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Afr ica of foreign currency, and with pay- ments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Com- mon Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of pur- chases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Afr ica for short periods. Financial rand accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Common Monetary Area and are subject to exchange control restrictions. These accounts, which are maintained with authorized banks, are used to credit local sales and redemp- tion proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South Afr ica owned by nonresi- dents. Immigrants (excluding former South Afr i- can residents) arriving on or a f ter September 12, 1990 may introduce their capital in financial rand without the Reserve Bank's approval during the first five years of their residence. Up to R 500,000 of these funds may be released locally per family during the f irst year of residence, subject to certain restrictions. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for finan- cial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are permitted to transfer financial rand balances freely from one financial rand account on their books to another on their own books or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted 3 Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency mean any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but exclude the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a n a tu r al or juridical person whose u sual place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Com- mon Monetary Area. securities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central govern- ment, municipal, or public utility stocks. On appli- cation and approval, nonresidents may use financial rand to purchase other assets. The local sale proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by immigrants before their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within five years of their arrival are also credited to financial rand accounts. Assets immigrants acquire abroad a f ter taking up resi- dence in South Africa may not be brought into the coun try through financial rand accounts. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Common Monetary Area and are subject to exchange control restrictions. Any cash or proceeds from any other South Afr ican asset held at the time of departure and subse- quently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to residents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regulations published on December 23,1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufac tur ing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any coun- try. Imports free of permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or man- u fac tu red in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. Importers are automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). The system of import licensing, which affects most agricultural and a number of manufactured products, is being phased out and replaced with selective tariff measures. With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 465 value-added tax; locally produced goods are also subject to the tax. Import surcharges are levied at varying rates, ranging from 5 percent on certain foodstuffs to 40 percent on nonessential goods. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may approve current income payments, such as declared divi- dends, profits, and royalties that accrue in South Africa, without reference to the Reserve Bank, pro- vided that (1) the Department of Trade and Indus- try and the Reserve Bank have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remittance of profits and dividends is based on normal trad- ing profits generated a f ter Janua ry 1, 1984 and does not involve local credit facilities. The Reserve Bank gives favorable consideration to such trans- fers when the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from securi- ties held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their country of residence, and limited amounts of exchange to pay for such items as membership fees and family maintenance are authorized. The basic allowance for travel by tourists is R 19,000 per year for an adu lt (R 9,500 for a child under 12). Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 6,600 for an adult (R 3,760 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozam- bique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe). In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for overseas business trips at a rate not exceeding R 1,800 a day, up to R 28,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring countries listed above is R 12,000 a year, at a rate not exceed- ing R 900 a day. Residents leaving South Afr ica for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take the fu ll applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 500, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica may take with them up to R 500 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and con- verted in South A f r ica. These limitations on the exportation of Reserve Bank notes do not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring coun- tries, who are permitted to take with them reason- able amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic cur- rency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for stra- tegic reasons require export permits for sale out- side the Southern Afr ican Customs Union (SACU), the combined areas of Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. To ensure that exchange control procedures are more effectively applied when export proceeds are repatriated, except exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive pay- ments based on the f.o.b. value of exports, the local content of products, the extent of processing involved, and the movement in the real effective exchange ra te in terms of a basket of currencies of South Afr ica's major trading partners since Janu- ary 1979. Company income tax rebates associated with expenditures in overseas markets are permit- ted up to 20 percent of current export turnover until March 31,1992. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Residents and nonresi- dents entering from countries outside the Com- mon Monetary Area may bring in R 500 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes. There are no limita- tions on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 Capital5 SOUTH AFRICA All inward loan transfers require specific approval6 although inward transfers for invest- ment in equity capital are freely permitted. For- eign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to desti- nations outside the Common Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South Afr ican (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are gen- erally not permitted, except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 apiece in financial rand, to allow South A f r ican residents to exercise share- holders' rights arising f rom existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted on stock exchanges outside the Common Monetary Area. South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbi- trage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net ou tf low of exchange. Nonresidents are not allowed to use f inanc ial rand to purchase farms and residential properties. Applications by South A f r ican residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries out- side the Common Monetary Area for bona f ide long-term investment in specific development projects, or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by South Africans, are con- sidered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments designed to foster exports and main- tain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete statement of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arr iva l. Any foreign assets transferred to South A f r ica may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad within the f i rst f ive years a f ter arrival. 5 Securities are defined not only as quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also as unquoted shares in public companies, shares in pr iva te companies, government, munici- pal, and public utility stocks, nonresident-owned mortgage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. "Scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 6 Domestic entrepreneurs are generally given approval for bor- rowing abroad with a ma tur i ty of at least six months, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names to finance South A f r ican foreign t rade and for other approved purposes. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South Afr ican securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to financial rand accounts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to transfer up to R 200,000 (R 100,000 for single persons) in financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible transfer- able amount must be credited to an emigrant blocked account. Up to R 300,000 per year of income earned by emigrants may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a nonresident account. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a financial rand account; the total net income earned from such an account is eligible for trans- fer, in addition to the R 300,000 mentioned above. A family or single person emigrating may export one motor vehicle with a maximum value of R 75,000, provided that the vehicle was purchased at least one year before emigration. Emigrants may export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 75,000, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in their pos- session for at least one year. Favorable consideration is given nonresident- owned branches and subsidiaries for the transfer of open or approved loan account balances/cur- rent profits earned a f ter Janua ry 1, 1984; and divi- dends declared on profits from trading generated a f ter Janua ry 1, 1984, provided such remittances do not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical exportation from South Africa of nonresident-owned securities is permit- ted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Afr ica may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes and investment. With this exception, res- idents of South Afr ica other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the Reserve Bank. Approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers for 7Subject, however, to the standstill arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 467 exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manu- facturing jewelers (except those to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufac tured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, a f ter approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including cer- tain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of production. With effect from October 1987, the Reserve Bank pays the gold mines in U.S. dollars for their sales of pro- duction. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one-third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The Mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 20. The Reserve Bank of South Afr ica announced that it would intervene in the financial rand market to influence the financial and exchange rates. Payments for Invisibles September 1. The annual limits on allowances for travel by tourists that authorized dealers may pro- vide were increased as follows: (1) for travel to neighboring countries, from R 5,600 to R 6,000 for an adult (from R 2,760 to R 3,000 a child); and (2) for travel to other countries, from R 17,000 to R 19,000 for an adult (from R 8,500 to R 9,500 for a child). The annual limits on business travel allowances were increased as follows: (1) for travel to neighbor- ing countries, from R 11,000 to R 12,000, with a daily limit of R 900; and (2) for travel to other coun- tries, from R 25,000 to R 28,000, with a daily limit of R 1,800. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. Spain participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Portugal in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS).1 In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 6 percent (for the Portuguese escudo, also 6 percent, and for the remaining currencies, 2.25 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31,1992, the maximum intervention rates2 were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg francs Danish kroner deutsche mark French francs Irish pound Netherlands guilders Portuguese escudos Spanish Peseta Upper limit Lower limit 374.7100 2,026.2000 7,728.0000 2,304.4000 186.6400 6,859.2000 835.6300 332.3600 1,797.1000 6,854.0000 2,043.9000 165.2800 6,084.0000 741.1800 100 100 100 100 1 100 1,000 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's, the U.S. dol- lar, and the ECU. Official rates for specified currencies3 are quoted on the basis of market rates and are published daily. lrThe United Kingdom withdrew from the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992, and I ta ly withdrew on September 17,1992. 2E f fec t ive intervention rates may vary within the limits of these max imum intervention rates, depending on daily f luc tua- tions in the cross rates between currencies. 3 Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 468 On December 31, 1992, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Ptas 114.62 per US$1. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All future transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered. There are no lim- its on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indirectly from prudential rules on maximum net foreign ex- change exposure. Under existing regulations, consol- idated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage, determined by the Bank of Spain, of the consolidated own resources of each banking group. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as of July 15,1986. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including prior verification and remaining administrative authorization corresponding to trade and invisible transactions, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish residents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and supervises commercial banks' activities, and is responsible for foreign exchange accounts and all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Spain notified the Fund on September 21, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 469 Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in footnote 3 but are usually made in the currency of the country of ori- gin or destination. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open any kind of deposit account in pesetas or foreign currency in all finan- cial institutions. Residents may open accounts in pesetas or foreign currency with any financial insti- tution abroad. Nonresidents' accounts in Spain and residents' accounts abroad are subject to reporting requirements. Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports into Spain may be made freely. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made among the members of the European Community (EC), those of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Mediterranean and ACP,4 member countries of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and state trading countries). Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through accounts in domestic and foreign financial institutions or other means of payment, including checks and transfers, subject to certain reporting requirements. The exportation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in bank notes, coins, gold, and other means of payment must be declared and that of more than the equivalent of Ptas 5 million requires authorization. Nonresident holders of Spanish securities may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights, and the pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct investments and rents on nonresident-owned real estate are freely transfer- able abroad. A general license permits the reinsur- ance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish 4Afr ican, Caribbean, and Pacific state signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC. firms or with foreign insurance companies operat- ing in Spain. Unless special authorization is other- wise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover exports and imports of goods and related operations. Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by-products) require prior authorization from the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the desti- nation or when exported to certain geographical areas (with distinctions being made between EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Export proceeds are not subject to repatriation or surrender requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles The importation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in bank notes, coins, gold, and other means of payment must be declared. All proceeds from invisibles may be used freely. Capital Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines established by the Organi- zation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) that take into account whether effective con- trol over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the invest- ment is at least 10 percent of the company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only in cases where at least two of the following conditions apply: (1) foreign participation exceeds 50 percent; (2) foreign participation exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (3) foreign investors are residents of tax haven coun- tries. Special authorization is required for non-EC for- eign investment in defense-related industries, telecommunications (over 25 percent of capital), tele- vision, radio, air transport, and gambling. Special authorization is also required for a foreign govern- ment's participation in Spanish companies (other than governments of EC countries) unless otherwise regu- lated by international treaties. The reinvestment of profits or proceeds from liq- uidation of existing investments is not restricted. Nonresidents may freely purchase any kind of financial assets and contract all types of commercial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 SPAIN credit without restriction but must report these trans- actions to the Bank of Spain. Verification is required before Spanish companies issue shares in foreign mar- kets; otherwise, securities' operations are permitted freely. Real estate investments require prior verifica- tion for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. The proceeds from the liquidation of nonresident investments and capital are freely transferable abroad, provided that these investments have been duly registered at the Registry of Foreign Invest- ment (Registro de Inversiones Extranjeras). Direct investments abroad by residents are per- mitted freely, except the following, which require prior verification: (1) the amount of the investment exceeds Ptas 250 million, (2) the purpose of invest- ment is to hold shares of other companies, and (3) investment is in a tax haven country. Residents may purchase freely securities issued by nonresi- dents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or by residents in a foreign market. Strict information requirements apply to investments in securities and foreign lending. Prior authorization is required for investments by residents in real estate in non-EC countries where ownership of Spanish real estate or Spanish companies is transferred as a result of the operation. Other investments in real estate by resi- dents abroad are permitted, but those that exceed Ptas 250 million require prior verification. Gold The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw mate- rials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufac tured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, depending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement September 17. The central rate of the peseta against the central rates of the currencies of the countries participating in the ERM of the EMS was devalued by 4.8 percent. The central rate of the peseta in terms of the ECU moved from Ptas 132.562 per ECU 1 to Ptas 139.176 per ECU 1. November 22. The central rate of the peseta against the central rate of the currencies of the countries participating in the ERM of the EMS was devalued by 6 percent. The central rate of the peseta in terms of the ECU moved from Ptas 139.179 per ECU 1 to Ptas 143.386 per ECU 1. Administration of Control February 1. All remaining exchange controls were lifted, with the exception of reporting and authori- zation requirements with respect to the exportation and importation of bank notes, coins, gold, and other means of payment. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) Payments for Invisibles February 1. All restrictions on payments for invisi- bles were abolished. The exportation of bank notes, coins, gold, and other means of payment in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 1 million must be declared, and the exportation of amounts exceeding the equiv- alent of Ptas 5 million would require authorization. Proceeds from Invisibles February 1. All restrictions on proceeds from invisi- bles were abolished. The importation of bank notes, coins, gold, and other means of payment in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 1 million must be declared. Capital July 1. Most controls on capital transfers were abolished. The main liberalization measures con- sisted of the following: September 24. A compulsory one-year, non-inter- est-bearing deposit to be held at the Bank of Spain was introduced against the increments from the Sep- tember 22 level of long positions taken against the peseta in foreign exchange markets and in peseta- denominated lending to nonresidents. The reserve requirement ratio on the increases in peseta-denomi- nated liabilities of domestic credit entities (national or foreign) with their branches, subsidiaries, or par- ent companies abroad was raised to 100 percent. October 5. The measure introduced on September 24 was abolished, and replaced by a compulsory non-interest-bearing deposit, to be held by com- mercial and savings banks or the Bank of Spain, against the increase in peseta lending to nonresi- dents through swaps on foreign exchange markets. November 24. The measure introduced on October 5 was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka announces the daily spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for transactions with the commercial banks, within margins of 1 percent, and purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the established rates. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 45.77 and SL Rs 46.23, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transactions are freely determined. Commercial banks are required to buy forward foreign exchange proceeds from all exporters whenever exports exceed SLRs 500,000, whether or not exporters avail themselves of the Cen- tral Bank's export refinance facilities. They may cover such purchases by selling forward to their clients (that is, importers and shipping agents) or to other autho- rized dealers. The average contract for the sale of for- eign exchange to importers must not exceed 360 days. Authorized dealers are permitted to quote forward rates for up to 180 days. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as an agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Board of Investments (BOI), formerly the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), has taken over the approval functions of the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee, which has been abolished, and now handles all applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka. Approval for foreign investment is granted on the basis of the types of activity and the proportion of foreign capital ownership; approval is automatically granted for foreign investment with equity capital ownership of up to 40 percent, except for a small number of activi- ties reserved for citizens of Sri Lanka or regulated by a special law or organization. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from the member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account. Proceeds from exports must be received either in designated foreign currencies, in Sri Lanka rupees from a non- resident account a foreign bank maintains with an authorized dealer, or in any other nonresident account a person maintains with an authorized dealer, as approved by the Central Bank. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals residing outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened a f ter their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these Aus tra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 SRI LANKA accounts and debits for remittances abroad require prior approval. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for remittances abroad require exchange control approval under certain circumstances. Accounts in category (4) are desig- nated in the first instance as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Exchange Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected with- out the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require prior approval under certain circumstances. Under cate- gory (5), foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local com- mercial bank without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds, usually owned by nonresidents, repatri- ates, and emigrants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends without prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Balances of nonresident foreign citizens and foreign companies in approved blocked accounts outstanding on March 25, 1991, excluding Sri Lankan citizens who have emigrated or acquired foreign citizenship and Indian and Pakistani expatri- ates, may be remitted abroad. Sri Lankans who have emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, and Sri Lankan citizens who have acquired permanent resi- dent status abroad and whose accounts have been blocked for more than five years as of June 30,1992, are also permitted to remit their account balances abroad. In all other cases, remittances of up to a max- imum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts without prior approval from the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a pro- portion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; the owner may use such retained funds for certain specified pur- poses, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been employed abroad, and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who reside outside Sri Lanka, are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in Sri Lanka in designated foreign curren- cies.2 Sri Lankans may also open such accounts within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with for- eign exchange they brought in or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and foreign exchange earnings brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, inter- est payments in designated currencies may be cred- ited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for pay- ments abroad or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, with exemptions granted under Section 17 of the BOI Act. Dividends and profits earned and sales proceeds of such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to the NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Rupee loan facilities for third parties against NRFC balances are also per- mitted. Employment agencies that recruit Sri Lan- kan nationals for foreign employment are also allowed to maintain NRFC accounts, to which their commission earnings may be credited. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish foreign currency banking units. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents, res- ident commercial banks, and any resident BOI enterprise. They may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresi- dent, any resident commercial bank, any resident enterprise having BOI status, any exporter for the purchase of imported inputs, and a few other speci- fied organizations with approval from the Central Bank. In addition, the foreign currency banking units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank. For- eign currency banking units are also authorized to operate savings accounts. However, accounts allowing the withdrawal of funds by checks are not permitted. Since August 1991, Sri Lankan residents have been permitted to open and operate resident for- eign currency (RFC) accounts with a minimum bal- 2 In Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Swed- ish kronor, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 473 ance of $500 (or its equivalent) without prior approval or documentary evidence of customs dec- larations. Exporters of goods and services may open and operate RFC accounts without restriction. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those controlled for security reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cinemato- graphic laboratories; screens for projectors; multi- colored photocopying apparatuses; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete cement blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash, including kelp; fertilizer; drugs and pharma- ceuticals; aircraft, including spare parts; motorcars; certain consumer goods; rice, flour, wheat grains, potatoes, and potato seeds; and various inorganic chemicals and compounds. As part of the measures introduced under the 1992 budget, a tariff regime consisting of four rate categories (50 percent, 35 percent, 20 percent, and 10 percent) was introduced, with three exceptions: cement, 15 percent; spare parts, 45 percent; and pas- senger automobiles, 200 percent. Certain essential products are exempted from duties at the discretion of the Ministry of Finance; these are pharmaceuti- cals, rice, wheat, flour, and sugar. Specific tar iffs are also levied on several items, including textiles, plas- tic goods, manufactured garments, printing paper, and locally grown agricultural goods (e.g., chili peppers and potatoes). Imports of specified items3 known as "reserved items" are restricted to government or state corpo- rations. Prior approval procedures apply to imports of certain capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the BOI, and certain machinery imports relating to local investment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee. No prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in convertible rupee accounts, which were closed to new credits as of November 16,1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for imports by export processing indus- tries and other specified transactions, all other 3 These include wheat, guns and explosives, and certain chem- icals and petroleum products. imports may be effected only against sight D/P term letters of credit valid for shipment for 180 days. Letters of credit on D/A terms may be opened in respect of imports for export-oriqnted industries and other high-priority areas for periods ranging from 120 days to 180 days. A stamp duty of 2 percent is levied on letters of credit for other imports (excluding inputs used in export indus- tries) not fu l ly covered by advance deposits. An authorized dealer may, without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange, approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit nonresident accounts against applications for the opening of a letter of credit and against proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a consignment does not exceed $3,000 (c.i.f.), consists of raw materials and spare parts for industries, and is for the direct use of the importer. Imports valued at $7,500 (c.i.f.) or less are permitted on D/A terms without letters of credit when import documents are channeled through commercial banks. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Payments for travel, medical treatments, and education abroad are permitted without restriction. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two-thirds of their gross monthly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enter- prises may remit up to two-thirds of their monthly earnings if their employment contract does not exceed three years, and up to one-third if the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earn- ings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f.o.b., c. & f., or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are permit- ted; such insurance could be obtained from a local state insurance corporation or a private insurance company. However, remittances for reinsurance are permitted to foreign reinsurers. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 SRI LANKA and payments for the importation of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of partnerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of divi- dends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion and do not include undistributed profits of the previous years or reserves of the company For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the benefi- ciary resides abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount owed to each. For final profits, the following docu- ments must be submitted: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under refer- ence; a computation of the remittable profits; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) mentioned above. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) certification from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; (2) certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary resides outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts owed to them; and (5) documentary evi- dence from auditors confirming payment of divi- dend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance rep- resents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) above. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remit- tances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees autho- rized by the Controller of Exchange for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be recon- verted into foreign currency notes and coins only at the exit point (Katunayake Airport/Colombo Port). Reconversion into drafts, telegraphic transfers, or traveler's checks can be made at all branches of the authorized dealers as well as at the exit point. For this purpose, the original encashment receipts or memos issued by the authorized dealers or money changers must be furnished. Sri Lankan and foreign passport holders may take out convertible foreign currency equivalent to $5,000 without declaration, irrespective of the number of trips they make. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding £20 a person (£10 for a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of the following products require a license: coral shanks and shells, betel leaves, animal foods, minerals and mineral products, metal ores, timber, metal and metal scraps, waste paper and paper boards, passenger motor vehicles, ivory and ivory products, and fertilizers. Exports of betel leaves to Pakistan, Singapore, and the Middle East are handled by three individual firms. The State Gem Corporation exercises quality control over the exportation of gems; the private sector may export gems on a consignment basis with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of non- monetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. 4 Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 475 Proceeds from exports are not subject to repatria- tion or surrender requirements. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Commercial banks are permitted to grant foreign currency loans from their foreign cur- rency banking units to exporters for the financing of the importation of inputs required for the pur- pose of executing export orders. This facility is lim- ited to 70 percent of the total value of the confirmed export order. The period of repayment of these loans has been extended from six months to eight months. Since November 1991, permission has been granted to certain companies engaged in indirect exports to obtain foreign currency loans for the importation of raw materials on the basis of back-to-back letters of credit opened in foreign cur- rency for receipt of payment in foreign currency, including payments from BOI enterprises. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his/her foreign exchange holdings exceeding $5,000, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of nonconvertible currencies af ter mak- ing a declaration to customs. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 1,000. Capital Foreign direct investments are permitted in new projects with or without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange as approved by the BOI. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of invest- ments in these projects, along with the capital appreciation, may be remitted in full. Investments in shares by nonresidents, up to 100 percent of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies, are permitted, subject to certain limita- tions, without prior approval from the Controller of Exchange through a share investment external rupee account maintained at a commercial bank. Proceeds from the sale of these shares may be repa- triated automatically, net of any tax. Blocked funds held by nonresidents with the approval of the Con- troller of Exchange in commercial banks are also permitted for investment in approved projects. Sale proceeds of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Proceeds from the sale or liquida- tion of other foreign investments in Sri Lanka may be repatriated in fu ll only with prior approval from the Minister of Finance. Investments abroad by residents are not gener- ally permitted unless there is evidence that they will promote the country's exports and generate reasonable profits. Resident-owned securities, on which principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually, or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency, must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Companies incorpo- rated abroad are permitted to invest in securities traded at the Colombo Stock Exchange, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to such investments by approved country funds, approved regional funds, and nonresident individ- uals, including Sri Lankans residing abroad. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of depar- ture, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to cover passage to the country of migration by the normal, direct route plus 20 percent of the passage fare to cover excess baggage expenses. Foreign exchange equivalent up to £500 an adult and £250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SLRs 30,000 an adult and SL Rs 15,000 a child under 12 years, plus jewelry up to SL Rs 100,000 for each married woman, SL Rs 60,000 for each unmar- ried woman, SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant under 2 years of age, and SLRs 25,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. Emigrants have also been permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 500,000 per individual, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million per family unit. The Depart- ment of Exchange Control may approve the transfer of pensions and interest income up to £100 a month, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer in fu ll assets representing their retire- ment funds and savings. Persons who have had small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to trans- fer the capital they originally brought into the coun- try, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 476 Gold SRI LANKA Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Controller of Exchange. Commercial banks may obtain a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports and import gold for sale to the public, subject to pay- ment of du ty and turnover tax. Commercial banks are also permitted to import gold on a consignment basis for duty-free sale to passengers at the Colombo International Airport, with a license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports (CIE). Commercial imports of jewelry and other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for exportation. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The Central Bank began announcing daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for its transactions with commercial banks, within a spread of 1 percent. Prescription of Currency April 23. Permission was granted to importers to settle payment on account of merchandise imports and invisible import transactions with India when invoice values are expressed in a convertible cur- rency outside the ACU mechanism. Resident and Nonresident Accounts June 30. All funds from the nonresident accounts of nonresident Sri Lankans who emigrated and acquired foreign citizenship, or who acquired per- manent resident status abroad and had their non- resident accounts blocked for five or more years as of June 30,1992, were allowed to be withdrawn. Imports and Import Payments June 3. Importers of potatoes and potato seeds were required to obtain an import license from the Controller of Imports and Exports before autho- rized dealers could issue letters of credit. June 9. Importers of rice and various inorganic chemicals and compounds were required to obtain an import license from the CIE before authorized dealers could issue letters of credit. August 13. The 100 percent cash margin require- ment against letters of credit opened for certain cat- egories of imports was eliminated. December 12. The limit on imports for personal use without letters of credit was increased to the equivalent of $2,000 (c.i.f. Colombo) from $1,000. Imports for commercial purposes on D/P terms without letters of credit were allowed up to the equivalent of $5,000 (c.i.f. Colombo). Payments for Invisibles March 6. Forward sales of foreign exchange were permitted for all current transactions, except for items for which a 100 percent cash margin deposit is required against the establishment of letters of credit and for capital transfers, including amortiza- tion payments. March 10. The annual basic foreign exchange travel allowance to countries other than the Indian group (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, and Pakistan) was raised to $5,000 an adult and $2,500 a child. March 19. Resident and nonresident Sri Lankan nationals were permitted to export in person for- eign currencies up to the equivalent of $5,000 with- out declaration to the customs authorities. March 25. Authorized dealers were permitted to provide foreign exchange for primary education abroad. Allowances for the living expenses of all classes of students living abroad for secondary, undergraduate, or professional and technical edu- cation, and for postgraduate education were increased as follows: (1) for the Indian group of countries, from up to the equivalent of Indian Rs 8,600 a year to up to the equivalent of Indian Rs 12,000 a year, and from up to the equivalent of Indian Rs 11,520 a year to up to the equivalent of Indian Rs 15,000 a year, respectively; (2) for Europe (excluding the United Kingdom and including the states of the former U.S.S.R.), from up to £3,120 a year to up to £3,600 a year, and from £3,840 a year to up to £4,200 a year, respectively; (3) for the United Kingdom, from up to £4,800 a year to up to £6,000 a year, and from up to £5,400 a year to up to £6,600 a year, respectively; (4) for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, from up to $7,200 a year to up to $8,400 a year, and from up to $8,640 a year to $9,600 a year, respectively; and (5) for all other countries, from up to $4,320 a year to $6,000, and from up to $5,760 a year to up to $7,200 a year, respectively. The travel allowance for primary education abroad was set at the same level as the travel allowance for secondary education abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds SRI LANKA Gold 477 January 1. The re-exportation of goods under entrepot trade on letters of credit and D/P terms was permitted. March 17. The limit on the exportation of gifts and trade samples was raised to the equivalent of SL Rs 10,000 from SL Rs 3,500. December 22. Export taxes on the following prod- ucts were abolished: coconuts (including fresh nuts, desiccated coconut, copra, coconut oil, and others); shelled and unshelled brazil nuts and cashew nuts, whether fresh or dried; tea (including 100 percent Sri Lankan green tea, black tea in bags and in bulk, imported foreign tea blended with Sri Lankan tea, instant tea, and others); and rubber (including all forms of RSS, latex and crepe, technically specified natural rubber, reclaimed rubber in primary forms, and other rubber products). Proceeds from Invisibles March 19. Resident and nonresident Sri Lankan nationals were permitted to import in person for- eign currencies equivalent to $5,000 without decla- ration to the customs authorities. Capital March 16. Authorized dealers were permitted to provide foreign exchange to emigrants, at the time of departure, to effect capital transfers equivalent to SLRs 500,000 a person, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million per family unit. The limit on the value of personal effects, excluding jewelry, emigrants are allowed to export was increased to SLRs 30,000 from SLRs 15,000 an adult, and to SLRs 15,000 from SL Rs 7,500 a child. The limit on jewelry that married female emigrants are allowed to export was raised to SL Rs 100,000 from SL Rs 75,000 a person, and that for male emigrants, to SL Rs 25,000 from SL Rs 10,000 a person. June 29. The purchase of securities issued by com- panies incorporated in Sri Lanka was permitted through "Share Investment External Rupee Accounts/' with certain conditions and limitations set out in the Government Gazette No. 721/4. November 5. Foreign currency loan facilities were extended to indirect exporters for the purpose of financing the import of inputs for manufacture and supply of accessories to direct exporters. March 17. The limit on personal jewelry female travelers may take to the Indian group of countries was increased to SL Rs 100,000 from SL Rs 90,000, providing the jewelry is returned to Sri Lanka (the limit for other countries was increased to SL Rs 150,000 from SL Rs 90,000 with effect from March 20). November 12. All commercial banks were permit- ted to import gold subject to certain conditions, including a license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Returning Sri Lankan nation- als who had stayed abroad for less than six months were allowed to import gold jewelry up to the equivalent of $1,000; those who had stayed abroad for longer than six months were allowed to import up to the equivalent of $5,000. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement March 29. Authorized dealers were permitted to enter into forward exchange contracts for periods of up to 360 days irrespective of the purpose. Prescription of Currency March 24. The facility available to importers to settle payments on account of merchandise imports and invisible import transactions with India when invoice values are expressed in a convertible cur- rency outside the ACU mechanism was withdrawn. Resident and Nonresident Accounts March 29. Export proceeds were permitted to be credited to resident foreign currency accounts that do not qualify for tax exemption or amnesty in the domestic banking units of commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The limit on payment for imports for personal use without opening letters of credit was increased to the equivalent of $3,000 (c.i.f. Colombo) from $2,000. The limit on payments on D/P terms without opening letters of credit for imports for com- mercial purposes was increased to the equivalent of $7,500 (c.i.f. Colombo) from $5,000. Payments for Invisibles March 29. Restrictions on payments for invisibles were removed in respect of travel, education ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 SRI LANKA expenses overseas, and remittances for other mis- cellaneous purposes. Permission was granted to authorized dealers to issue international credit cards and effect such payments. The limits on exports of gifts, trade samples, and personal effects and jewelry to be reimported were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 15. The limits on exports of gifts, trade samples, and personal effects and jewelry to be reimported were increased by 50 percent from the previous limits. March 29. The repatriation and surrender require- ments in respect of export proceeds were abolished. Capital January 15. Foreign exchange allowances of emigrants at the time of depar ture were increased significantly. March 29. Foreign exchange allowances granted to emigrants at the time of departure were fur ther liberalized. The remittance of pensions in full to persons retired permanently abroad was permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. The official exchange rate of the Sudanese pound is determined under an exchange market arrange- ment in which the rate is determined by the Com- mittee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate of the Union of Banks (Bankers' Association) and is quoted uniformly by all commercial banks. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in this market were Lsd 133.65 and Lsd 136.35, respectively, per US$1. In the official exchange market, 23 commercial banks and 4 specialized banks (the Agricultural Bank, Estate Bank, Industrial Bank, and Savings Bank) are authorized to operate as exchange houses. The Union of Banks, representing all com- mercial and specialized banks, has assigned the determination of the exchange rate to seven bank managers who form the Committee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate. The Committee consists of four members representing public sector commer- cial banks (managers of Bank of Khartoum, El Nilein Bank, Unity Bank, and Sudan Import-Export Bank) and three members representing jointly owned commercial banks (managers of Faisal Islamic Bank, Todoman Bank, and El Shamal Bank). It meets three times a week and announces the exchange rates, taking into account the underlying supply and demand developments in the exchange market over the previous day. All proceeds from exports of goods and services must, in principle, be surrendered to the commer- cial banks at the official exchange rate. In principle, commercial banks are authorized by the Bank of Sudan to sell foreign exchange to be transferred abroad for all purposes. In practice, commercial banks conduct informal rationing by making foreign exchange available according to the priorities established by each bank manager. In the case of payments for imports, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to licensed trad- ers, except for categories of goods that are on the negative list. Under a central bank regulation, the commercial banks are obligated to require 100 per- cent cash cover before agreeing to the sale of foreign exchange. When foreign exchange is made avail- able by a commercial bank against a letter of credit, the amount is immediately deposited in a sus- pended account on behalf of the purchaser, while foreign exchange made available on the basis of cash against documents (CAD) is transferred to the purchaser immediately. Commercial banks do not bear any exchange risk for any foreign exchange transaction. All commercial and specialized banks have been instructed by the Bank of Sudan to purchase pro- ceeds from exports of cotton (both irrigated and rain-fed), gum arabic, official loans and grants, and government fees, taxes, and charges (paid in for- eign currency) at the official exchange rate in favor of the Bank of Sudan. Commercial banks have been encouraged by the Bank of Sudan to give priority to previous commitments (letters of credit and CAD), established before February 2, 1992, against reten- tion accounts and against previously anticipated inflows of free market resources. Commercial banks have also been instructed by the Bank of Sudan to purchase all balances in retention accounts for goods and services outstanding at the close of busi- ness on February 2, 1992 at the official exchange rate and to utilize these balances as the starting for- eign exchange base for each bank in the new mar- ket. In addition, commercial banks have been required to provide the Bank of Sudan with detailed statistics of the sources and utilization of proceeds transacted in the official market. A special accounting exchange rate of 3 clearing U.S. dollars per US$1 is applied to all trade with Egypt under a trade and payments agreement. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks and specialized banks acting as exchange houses. Commercial banks and specialized banks may effect payments from their foreign exchange accounts without verification by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Bank of Sudan. The issuance of commercial certifi- cates is the responsibility of the Ministry of Com- merce, Cooperation, and Supply. The Bank of Sudan, the Taxation Department, and the Zakat Chamber have the authority to request any infor- mation or details from authorized banks. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 480 SUDAN Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agree- ment —and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free foreign currency account or special foreign cur- rency account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts Sudanese nationals are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. Free accounts may be credited with any means of payment without revealing their sources. Free accounts may be deb- ited only for (1) transfers abroad; (2) withdrawals (in the form of traveler's or cashier's checks or cash) for travel abroad by account holders and their family af ter verification of fu lf i l lment of travel requirements; (3) payments made in cash or bank checks to the Duty-Free Shops Corporation; (4) pay- ment of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency (for nonresident Sudanese nationals only); and (5) purchase of Sudanese pounds at the off ic ial rate. Any transfer from a free account is exempt from a simultaneous purchase and sale arrangement as long as the trans- fer is for (l)-(4) above; for payments to the Estate Bank for purchases of cement or payments of an existing obligation on the free account, such as let- ters of credit already established through the Com- mercial Investment Scheme. The use of resources in the free account for any other purpose —including the financing of imports —requires the sale of for- eign exchange to the official market and a purchase of foreign exchange through this market. Diplomatic and foreign missions and organiza- tions, international and regional organizations, vol- untary and charitable foreign organizations, foreign companies and branches of foreign companies, for- eign contractors and subcontractors, and employees of these organizations are allowed to open special accounts with authorized banks in foreign and local currency. Special foreign exchange accounts may be cred- ited with transfers from abroad for the organiza- tions' accounts and with their salaries for the employees' accounts. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, with- drawals for the purpose of travel by the account holder or his family, and local payments in Sudanese pounds, on condition that the foreign exchange is converted at the unified exchange rate. Special local currency accounts of the organizations may be credited with transfers from their special foreign currency accounts or with checks issued from government bodies. The special local currency accounts of employees may be credited with trans- fers from their special foreign currency accounts. Airline companies are allowed to open foreign currency accounts without approval from the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be credited with pay- ments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign cur- rency. Airline companies may open a current account in local currency with any authorized bank in order to keep their revenues with the consent of the Bank of Sudan. The account may be debited to meet local expenditures. In addition, airline compa- nies are required to open a "closed local currency account," which may be credited with net revenues from sales every three months. These accounts may be debited for transfers to the company's head office abroad; withdrawals to meet local commit- ments with approval from the Bank of Sudan; and payments of transit and landing fees for scheduled flights to Sudan with approval from the Civil Avia- tion Authority. Transfers between foreign currency accounts within the country are prohibited, except for (1) transfers between free accounts, (2) transfers from specified organizations' special foreign cur- rency accounts to their employees' special foreign currency accounts to make salary payments,1 (3) deposits to and withdrawals from Duty-Free Shops accounts, and (4) transfers to airline compa- nies' accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Import licenses are not required, except for goods imported through bilateral and preferential trade arrangements. All applications for the importa- tion of goods not included on the negative list must be channeled through the commercial or specialized banks and must be accompanied by the following: (1) a pro forma invoice; (2) a valid commercial regis- tration certificate (issued annually by the Ministry of 1 These organizations are the Arab Agr icu l tural Investment and Development Corporation and the companies belonging to it, A rab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, Arab Authority for Investment and Agr icu l tural Development, Arab Sugar Association, Kha r toum In terna t ional Ins t i tu te for Arabic Language, A rab Center for Social Security, international organi- zations, embassies, and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 481 Commerce) that verifies that the importer is a trader; (3) a valid tax clearance certificate; and (4) the writ- ten consent of the authorities concerned (indicated in parentheses) in addition to their stamp on the pro forma invoice in the case of drugs, medical tools and equipment, and medical needs (Ministry of Health); veterinary medicines and veterinary needs (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); food (Min- istry of Health); seeds (Ministry of Agriculture); petroleum and petroleum products (General Petro- leum Corporation); ammunition and explosives (Ministry of Interior); airport needs (Civil Aviation Security); communications—telephone, facsimile, and telex—equipment (Security Telecommunication Corporation); insecticides and fertilizer (Ministry of Agriculture); chicken farm and cow ranch needs (Ministry of Agriculture and Veterinary Resources); irrigation pumps (Ministry of Irrigation); and agri- cultural sprayers (Ministry of Agriculture). The negative list of imports includes textiles and ready-made garments; livestock and meat, except livestock for cross-breeding; broilers and eggs, except one-day-old chicks and parent eggs; hides and footwear, except artificial leather; sugar; alco- holic beverages; and arms and ammunition, except with special permits. In principle, commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to finance all imports (except those on the negative list) irrespective of their final use. Authorized banks are also allowed to provide import credit facilities for imports of specified capi- tal goods2 by means of sight credit or documents against acceptance, provided that maturity is no less than two years and repayments do not begin until one year after the arrival of goods. Commercial and specialized banks are required to furnish the Bank of Sudan with the following information every two weeks: applicant's name; goods to be imported; value of imports; term of payment; approval number; commercial registra- tion number; and tax clearance number. Authorized banks, when filing import applications, are required to provide the Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation, and Supply with information on the type and quantity of commodities every two weeks. Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Imports financed at the free unified rate, including those financed through the opening of letters of credit, could be subject to an advance deposit up to the full c.i.f. value. 2 Including agricultural equipment, such as tractors and har- vesters; all means of transportation, excluding sedans; mining equipment; all kinds of industrial and service equipment; and road, irrigation, building, and construction equipment. Payments for Invisibles In principle, there are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. In practice, however, sales of foreign exchange for invisible payments d iffer among com- mercial and specialized banks owing to the informal rationing procedures established by each bank. Under the current practice, most commercial banks provide a nominal amount of foreign exchange for travel abroad after travel verification is obtained. When foreign exchange is in short supply, business travel is favored over vacation travel. For medical treatment abroad, a commensurate amount of for- eign exchange is provided after the applicant has obtained medical committee certification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are not required for any category of exports (except for exports under bilateral protocol arrangements and on account of barter trade). However, all exporters must submit export con- tracts and the "EX" export form to commercial or specialized banks for approval. Indicative export prices are set by a committee consisting of the Min- ister of Commerce, the Governor of the Bank of Sudan, three private sector exporters, and the man- ager of a commercial bank. Wlien export prices diverge significantly from indicative prices, the per- mission of the committee must be obtained before shipment. All export proceeds, except those permitted to be retained under the Export Enhancement Scheme, must be repatriated to the domestic banking system at the official exchange rate. When the terms of pay- ment are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on deliv- ery of the shipping documents; otherwise, a surren- der date is usually specified up to a maximum of three months. Export proceeds relating to cotton and gum arabic must be purchased by commercial banks in favor of the Bank of Sudan at the official exchange rate. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Export taxes are levied on all categories of goods (except exports under bilateral protocol arrange- ments and under barter trade). The tax is collected by Customs and is deposited in the Customs' account at the Bank of Sudan. The applicable tax rates are 10 percent on cotton and gum arabic, and 5 percent on other exports. Major export goods (including sorghum, oil seeds, edible oil, expellers except for manufactured fodder, cattle and camels, meat, hides and skins, and melon seeds) are subject to minimum export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 SUDAN prices. Exporters of these products in large quanti- ties receive certain incentives in the form of the right to retain 2 percent to 4 percent of the export value calculated on the exported quantity and the minimum prices and the right to retain foreign exchange earned from selling goods abroad at prices above the minimum level set by the authori- ties. These extra export earnings are exempt from the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. Travelers entering Sudan may bring in foreign currencies without restriction but may not import more than Lsd 20 in Sudanese currency. Shipping agencies are permitted to accept foreign currency in payment for any services; however, they are required to sell all the foreign currency pro- ceeds to authorized banks on the day following their receipt at the unified exchange rate. Sales of tickets and freight services in foreign cur- rencies by airline companies in Sudan are restricted to (1) foreign tourists and businessmen; (2) foreign- ers working with diplomatic missions and organi- zations and international, regional, and national organizations; (3) foreigners employed by foreign relief, charitable, and religious organizations; and (4) foreigners working with foreign companies and branches of companies operating in the fields of contracting, investment, and prospecting for petro- leum and minerals. Airline companies are allowed to receive payments for tickets and freight services in foreign currency on condition that payments are made in the form of deposits to their foreign cur- rency accounts. Sales in foreign exchange deposited in the foreign currency accounts may be remitted to the company's head office af ter approval from the Civil Aviation Authority. Capital Public sector capital transactions (including debt- service payments) are effected at the official market exchange rate (they were effected at the official exchange rate of Lsd 15 per US$1 before February 2, 1992); likewise, all incoming private sector foreign capital, including bank capital, is converted at the official exchange rate (it was converted at the com- mercial bank rate of Lsd 30 per US$1 before February 2,1992). Foreign direct investments are permitted accordance with existing laws and regulations. Repatriation of share capital and amortization payments on loans to nonresidents is subject to cer- in tification from the Bank of Sudan regarding the original value of the foreign share in capital and loans. Repatriation of equity shares requires a certi- fication of liquidation and tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Coop- eration, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement February 2. The exchange system consisting of the official exchange market (Lsd 15 per US$1), the free market (Lsd 30 per US$1), and the retention market for exports of goods and services was abolished and replaced by an official foreign market arrange- ment under which the exchange rate would be determined by the Committee for the Fixing of the Exchange Rate of the Union of Banks (Bankers' Association) and quoted uniformly by all commer- cial banks. February 16. A special accounting exchange rate of 3 clearing U.S. dollars per US$1 was applied to all transactions with Egypt conducted under the trade and payments agreement. February 24. Special exchange rates were intro- duced for education allowances. An exchange rate of Lsd 15 per US$1 would be applied to allowances for students who began university studies before October 7,1991, and an exchange rate of Lsd 20 per US$1 would be applied to allowances for students who began university studies af ter that date. This arrangement would be in effect until June 30,1992. Administration of Control March 22. Authorized banks were prohibited from providing any information or statistical data except through the Bank of Sudan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 483 April 8. The Taxation Department and the Zakat Chamber were added to the bodies that had the right to demand information or statistical data from authorized banks. Foreign Currency and Nonresident Accounts February 3. Most transfers between foreign cur- rency accounts within the country were prohibited. February 9. The following transfers between for- eign exchange accounts within the country were permitted: (1) transfers from specified institutions (Arab Organization for Agricultural Development, Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa, Arab Authority for Investment and Agricultural Development, Arab Sugar Association, Khartoum International Institute for Arabic Language, Arab Center for Social Security, international organiza- tions, embassies, and foreign companies) to their employees; (2) deposits to and withdrawals from the Duty-Free Shops Corporation accounts; and (3) transfers from accounts of airline companies. February 26. Transfers between foreign exchange accounts within the country were temporarily per- mitted until May 30, 1992 if these accounts were owned by those who have commercial investment authorizations for which the banking procedures have been completed. February 27. Authorized banks were required to close foreign currency accounts of shipping agen- cies and were prohibited f rom issuing bank checks payable to the Duty-Free Shops Corpora- tion against foreign currency accounts owned by individuals. March 17. Authorized banks were permitted to open special foreign currency accounts in foreign currency and local currency for specified bodies, including diplomatic and foreign missions and organizations, international and regional organiza- tions, voluntary and charitable foreign organiza- tions, foreign companies and branches of foreign companies, foreign constructors and subconstruc- tors, and for employees of these organizations. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad for the organizations' accounts and with sal- aries for their employees' accounts; these accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, withdrawals for the purpose of travel by account holders and their family members, and local payments in Sudanese pounds provided that foreign exchange is converted at the unified exchange rate. Special local currency accounts of the organizations may be credited with transfers from their special foreign currency accounts or with checks issued by govern- ment bodies. The special local currency accounts of employees may be credited with transfers from their special foreign currency accounts. March 29. Authorized banks were allowed to issue bank checks payable to the Duty-Free Shops Corporation against foreign currency accounts owned by individuals from whom the Corporation requires payment for the purchase of automobiles that it has imported on their behalf af ter obtaining the consent of the Ministry of Commerce, Corpora- tion, and Supply. May 12. Authorized banks were required to close foreign currency accounts of airline companies and keep the balances in closed foreign currency accounts. The use of balances from these accounts would be granted only with respect to transfers to the headquarters of the airline companies abroad with approval from the Bank of Sudan. Airline companies were allowed to open current accounts with any authorized bank for the purpose of keep- ing their revenues with the approval of the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be debited to meet local expenditures. Airline companies were required to open "closed local currency accounts," which were to be credited with the net revenues from sales every three months af ter obtaining approval from the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be debited with (1) transfers to the company's headquarters abroad, (2) withdrawals to meet local commitments with the approval from the Bank of Sudan, and (3) payments of transit and landing fees for sched- uled flights to Sudan af ter approval from the Civil Aviation Authority. May 20. Authorized banks were temporarily allowed to issue bank checks payable to the Duty- Free Shops Corporation against foreign currency accounts owned by individuals and companies until May 31,1992. June 1. Authorized banks were prohibited from issuing bank checks payable to the Duty-Free Shops Corporation against foreign currency accounts owned by individuals. June 6. Restrictions on the use of free foreign exchange accounts were liberalized. The require- ment to declare the sources of foreign exchange used to replenish free foreign exchange accounts held by Sudanese nationals with domestic banks was abolished. Free foreign exchange accounts were thus allowed to be credited with any means of payment without submitting any documents. How- ever, withdrawals in cash in foreign currency from these accounts exceeding $5,000 (or its equivalent) would be subject to a fee of one Sudanese pound per US$1. June 18. A ir l ine companies were allowed to open closed fore ign currency accounts w i thout ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 SUDAN the consent of the Bank of Sudan. These accounts may be credited w i th payments from their pas- sengers, consignors, and agents, who have per- mission to buy tickets in foreign currency. July 4. Withdrawals from special accounts in the form of traveler's or cashier's checks or cash to finance travel expenses of account holders and their immediate family members were allowed without restrictions. Imports and Import Payments February 5. The import-licensing requirement was abolished, except for goods imported under defense or preferential trade agreements. Importers were required to submit to authorized banks appli- cations for imports of goods not included on the negative list. These imports were required to be financed on a document against acceptance (D /A) or document against payment (D/P) basis. Autho- rized banks were required to furnish the Bank of Sudan bimonthly with information on import applications. June 6. Authorized banks were allowed to pro- vide credit facilities for imports of specified capital goods by means of D/Ps or D/As, on condition that maturity is at least two years, that they entail no additional cost, and that payments do not begin until one year af ter the arrival of goods. July 4. The following nine products were excluded from the negative list of imports: (1) carpets and moquette; (2) furniture and ready- made doors and windows; (3) canned food; (4) confectionery items (sweets, cookies, macaroni, vermicelli, and similar items); (5) tomato paste and dairy products; (6) shoes; (7) laundry soap; (8) soda water and other nonalcoholic beverages; and (9) fresh fruits and vegetables. Payments for Invisibles June 6. Sudanese and foreign travelers would be allowed to leave the country with an unlimited amount of foreign exchange without restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. The export tax rates were amended as follows: (1) 75 percent on cotton and gum arabic; (2) 30 percent on livestock; (3) 30 percent on camels; (4) 20 percent on sesame; and (5) 10 percent on all other products. February 16. All exports to Egypt to be settled under the trade and payments agreement were exempted from the export tax. February 18. The export tax rates were amended as follows: (1) 75 percent on irrigated cotton; (2) 20 percent on all types of livestock; (3) 20 percent on camels; and (4) 10 percent on all other products. April 7. The export tax rate on livestock was raised from 20 percent to 40 percent. July 1. The export tax rates were amended as fol- lows: (1) 10 percent on cotton and gum arabic; and (2) 5 percent on all other products. Commercial and specialized banks instead of Customs were autho- rized to collect the taxes on exports that were shipped on or after July 1,1992. October 27. The ban on the exportation of sor- ghum and pearl millet was lifted. November 5. The ban on the exportation of cotton seed cake and wheat bran was lifted. December 13. Minimum export prices were estab- lished for the following products: sorghum, oil seeds, edible oil, expellers except for manufactured fodder, cattle and camels, meat, hides and skins, and melon seeds. An Export Enhancement Scheme for exporters of these goods was also introduced. Under the scheme, exporters exporting large quan- tities would be entitled to retain part of their for- eign currency proceeds either in Sudan or abroad. Moreover, receipts from exports above the mini- mum prices were permitted to be used by exporters without restriction, and such receipts would be exempted from the export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. The schedule of minimum annual transfers to Sudan for laborers ($500), civil servants ($1,000), professionals ($2,000), professors and experts ($4,000), and businessmen ($6,000) was abolished. February 27. Shipping agencies were permitted to accept foreign currency in payment for any ser- vices, but they were required to sell all of their for- eign currency proceeds to authorized banks one day after receipt at the unified exchange rate. April 12. Airline companies were prohibited from selling their tickets in Sudan in foreign currency, except for the following: (1) Sudanese nationals working abroad and their immediate families (wife and children) who possess valid work or residence permits or who have an exit and re-entry visa; (2) Sudanese nationals employed by the specified organizations and their immediate families; (3) foreign tourists and businessmen; (4) foreigners employed by foreign diplomatic missions and bod- ies and international and regional organizations, bodies, corporations, and agencies; (5) foreigners ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 485 employed by foreign voluntary and charitable orga- nizations; and (6) foreigners employed by foreign companies and branches of companies operating in the fields of contracting, consultancy and prospect- ing for petroleum and minerals. Airline companies were prohibited from accepting foreign currency, and passengers and consignors were required to exchange their foreign currency in the authorized banks and pay for their tickets in local currency with proof of conversion. June 6. The requirement to register foreign cur- rency on a customs declaration upon entry to Sudan was abolished. Sudanese and foreign travel- ers would be allowed to enter (and leave) the coun- try with an unlimited amount of foreign exchange without restriction. June 18. Airline companies were permitted to sell tickets and freight services in foreign currency in Sudan only to specified categories of foreigners. Airline companies were permitted to receive pay- ments for tickets and freight services in foreign cur- rency on condition that payments be made in the form of deposits to their closed foreign currency accounts. Transfers of foreign exchange deposited in the closed foreign currency accounts to the com- pany's head office abroad would be permitted with the approval of the Civil Aviation Authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 per US$1. On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf l .77 and Sfl.80, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank of Suri- name on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amster- dam. There is no exchange market in Suriname. A commission of 1 percent is charged on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 2.0 percent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. A "conversion rate" of Sf 5 per US$1 is used for the valuation of "own-funds" imports, and the Government sells most goods obtained under bridging assistance from the Nether- lands at a special conversion rate of Sf 2.50 per f. 1 (Netherlands guilder). Foreign exchange is auc- tioned occasionally by the Central Bank. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29,1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to licensing, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs.2 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must also be approved by the Central Bank, but the release of foreign exchange for all external payments is approved by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with other ministries. In principle, imports of medi- cal supplies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educational supplies are given priority in the licens- ing system, but the full basis for allocation is not published. The Central Bank is empowered to pro- vide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Exter- nal payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Commission. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invisible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not per- mitted to sell foreign exchange unless the remitter submits an exchange license. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Commercial banks may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of for- eign loans must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suri- name and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suri- name guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, except for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Barbados dollars, and Guyana dollars. 2 However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activi- ties in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 3 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Barbados dollars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 486 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 487 must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident for- eign currency accounts may not be credited with Surinamese tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are sub- ject to quotas under the Comprehensive Decree of May 11,1982.5 The Ministry of Finance allocates foreign exchange according to three priority criteria. The highest priority list covers basic foodstuffs, hydro- carbons, and pharmaceuticals. The second priority list consists of inputs for cement production, subsis- tence payments to Surinamese students living abroad, and transfers to embassies abroad. The low- est priority list includes spare parts. A government agency, the Suriname Central Importation Service, acts in part as a distributor of goods mainly to the outlying districts. Import licenses are granted more liberally to individuals and companies using their own foreign exchange ("own-funds" licenses). The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding); chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked); vege- tables (excluding potatoes, onions, and garlic); edible roots and tubers; cirrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts; green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated); rice and rice products (excluding baby food); sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup; noodles and macaroni; jam, jelly, and mar- malade (excluding those for diabetics); peanut butter; syrups and concentrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics); firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden struc- tures for construction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, handles, and coat hangers; men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes); and sand, gravel, side- walk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fruits and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaf- feinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain pre- served vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and fu rn i tu re (excluding those for business establishments, such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). Central Bank. Import licenses are valid for six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 2.0 percent are levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be submitted to the Foreign Exchange Commission at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Authorized banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 a month for each item on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth) as well as for adver- tising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to licensing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 270 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A person may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 320 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide appli- cations for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an individual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essential to, but not taught in, Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for the amortization of loans or depreciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Commission for verification. These payments are temporarily sus- pended. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The exportation of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 SURINAME exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad, and exporters undertake to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to the Central Bank within 30 days. The Ministry of Economic Affairs ascertains with the relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is prohibited and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Cer- tain export companies have received special permis- sion from the Foreign Exchange Commission to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of the f.o.b. value, depend- ing on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 2.0 percent of their f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to S f l OO in domestic currency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their possession on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency in their possession. The amount that nonresi- dents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Commission provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The deci- sion covers investments made by nonresidents with foreign capital a f ter July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 percent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Commission may, at its discretion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from the estate of a deceased person, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates valued at more than Sf 10,000, fur ther annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period of not more than ten years. The Commission may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subse- quently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earn- ings in Suriname accrued during his period of resi- dence. If his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under excep- tional circumstances. Outward transfers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries6 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Commission. Trans- fers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires the prior approval of the Foreign Exchange Commission. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the accounts of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.7 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dol- lar accounts. 6 Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, I ta ly, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 7This arrangement applies to the na t iona l ly controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hak r inbank but not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nede r land. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 489 Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Commission by sale to the Cen- tral Bank. The authorized gold buyers are permit- ted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins —with face values of S f lOO, Sf200, and Sf 250—are legal tender. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; autho- rized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Commission; licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a du ty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a sta- tistical fee of 2.0 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plu- ral Emalangeni), which is pegged to the South Afr i- can rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African commercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the closing buying and selling rates were E 3.0495 and E 3.0525, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar, and for the European Currency Unit (ECU). The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies of the member states of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern Afr ican States (PTA), based on their relationship with the SDR as reported by the clearinghouse operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. These currencies include the Kenya shilling, the Malawi kwacha, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet demands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Swaziland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 11,1989. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA), a single exchange control territory compris- ing Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not con- trolled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa but has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resident of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa, and no import restric- tions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in conformity with spe- cific import regulations. Import licenses granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payments procedures. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current pay- ments up to established limits is delegated to autho- rized dealers. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 19,000 for each adult, and E 9,500 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic allowance is E 1,800 a person a day, not exceeding E 28,000 a year. Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of bona fide need. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 491 Residents traveling to the member countries of the PTA must use traveler's checks denominated in the units of account of the PTA (UAPTAs). To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking before departure. Capital All inward capital transfers require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatria- tion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nomi- nee for a nonresident, without prior approval. In August 1987, the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the CBS reached an agreement to allow some nonres- idents to invest in specific projects in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism by acquiring shares in new companies and by purchasing shares in existing nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to invest- ments involving the establishment or expansion of manufacturing enterprises, subject to evidence of investment in fixed assets of most of the funds pro- vided through financial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capi- tal are considered on their merits. Blocked emalan- geni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles January 2. The limit on the amount of traveler's checks demoninated in UAPTAs that travelers to the PTA were allowed to purchase was abolished. September 15. The limits on foreign exchange authorized banks are permitted to sell without refer- ring to the CBS were increased as follows: (1) for business travel to the CMA countries, to E 900 from E 800 a day and to E 12,000 from E 11,000 a year; (2) for business travel to non-CMA countries, to E 1,800 from E 1,500 a day and to E 28,000 from E 25,500 a year; (3) for tourist travel to the CMA countries, to E 6,000 from E 5,500 for each adult and to E 3,000 from E 2,750 for each child; (4) for tourist travel to non-CMA countries, to E 19,000 from E 17,000 for each adult and to E 9,500 from E 8,500 for each child; (5) for travel allowances for students studying in countries outside the CMA, to E 5,500 from E 5,000 for a single student and to E 11,000 from E 10,000 for married students; (6) for monthly allow- ances for students studying in countries outside the CMA, to E 2,750 from E 2,500 for a single student and to E 5,500 from E 5,000 for married students; and (7) for business expenses relating to advertising, exhibitions, and trade fairs held outside the CMA, to E 25,000 from E 10,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of January 1,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. The Swedish authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and for- ward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The Sveriges Riksbank, however, has the discretionary power to intervene in the exchange market. On December 31,1992, the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Skr 7.04 and Skr 7.06, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot or forward, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresidents against any foreign currency or Swed- ish kronor credited (debited) to a kronor account. Also, currency option contracts may be concluded freely with both residents and nonresidents. For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign exchange positions (spot, forward, options) in individual foreign currencies and on the total net position in all foreign currencies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net posi- tion is equal to 10 percent of a bank's capital base. For a bank that is a recognized market maker, the limit is equal to 15 percent of its capital base. Banks may grant overdrafts to nonresidents and may incur foreign exchange net liabilities for which the same limits apply This enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending to foreign banks or other nonresidents or to residents. Lending abroad in kronor is also freely permitted. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange holdings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. A limit also exists on a bank's total net position calculated as the sum of all liability posi- tions. This limit is equal to 20 percent of the bank's capital base and to 30 percent for recognized market makers. Sweden forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15,1961. All current and capital transactions are free from exchange control. When required, import and export licenses are issued by the National Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market Board. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Sweden notified the Fund on August 7, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an external kronor account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts External kronor accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and be converted into any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bul- garia, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, except from the members of the Euro- pean Community (EC) and the European Free Trade Agreement (EFTA), are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. With a few exceptions, imports from Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and South Afr ica are prohibited. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 493 Payments for imports may be made freely. Importers are also permitted to accept foreign sup- pliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without limit or restriction. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be acquired freely. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coins without limitation. While abroad, residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea are subject to export licensing. All other exports, with the exception of scrap metal, are free from license. With a few exceptions, exports to Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavai (Serbia and Montenegro), and South Africa are prohibited. Pro- ceeds from exports of goods may be sold for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account in Sweden and used by the holder to make payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each per- son entering Sweden may bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coins, and other means of payment. Capital All capital transactions are free from restriction. For tax control and statistical purposes, however, residents depositing funds in foreign bank accounts or transacting through such an account must report the amount to the Swedish National Tax Board and to the Riksbank. Transactions in securities may be carried out freely. Foreign securities held by indi- viduals must be deposited with an authorized cur- rency dealer who is a securities broker or a broker who has received special approval from the Riks- bank or a similar foreign institution. Investments in South Africa are prohibited. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 19. The Riksbank announced that the peg of the Swedish krona to the ECU would be dis- continued and that the exchange rate would be allowed to float. Administration of Control December 31. (I) The Sveriges Riksbank Act (1990:750) governing transactions with foreign coun- tries was rescinded; and (2) the requirement that all current transactions must be conducted through authorized currency dealers was abolished. Capital January 1. The following requirements were abol- ished: (1) that all capital transactions must be con- ducted through authorized currency traders; (2) that foreign securities must be purchased or sold through a securities trading institution or a cur- rency trader that has special approval from the Riksbank; and (3) that foreign securities must be deposited with a currency trader or through a cur- rency trader that has special approval from the Riksbank. December 31. The prohibition on depositing funds in accounts with foreign banks or transacting through these accounts was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when cir- cumstances warrant. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1992, the midpoint market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was Sw F 1.4560 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commer- cial and financial transactions. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of importation and exportation, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, as are juridical persons, including banks. However, this rule does not apply to the acquisition of Swiss real estate. Liechtenstein is considered a for- eign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal Department of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. 1 Switzerland became a member of the IMF on May 29,1992. Capital export transactions of financial institutions, however, are subject to approval by the Swiss National Bank (see section on Capital, below). In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Switzerland notified the Fund, on September 1, 1992, that certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is a state monopoly. The most important commodities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their compounds. Import permits for goods under license are gener- ally granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveil- lance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The exportation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation (including the re-exportation) of some goods, including weapons and scrap metal, is controlled through individual licenses. This export- licensing system is operated in part with the assis- tance of appropriate semiofficial or private organi- zations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The importation of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 495 Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formal- ity, except that foreign bond issues in Switzerland amounting to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more require permission from the Swiss National Bank. In prac- tice, this requirement is administered very liberally. A stamp tax is payable on security issues and trans- actions. Subsidiaries and branches of foreign insti- tutions are allowed to participate in syndicated Swiss f ranc security issues. For direct bank partici- pations or subscriptions by Swiss banks in issues and bank credits (exceeding Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months) abroad, the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transac- tion must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Selected banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and for- ward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or residing abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is sit- uated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal Government. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. A multiple exchange rate system is maintained. The official rate of LS 11.20/ 11.25 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to gov- ernment transactions, public sector exports of petroleum, and certain agricultural products; and, on the payments side, to government transactions, public sector imports of certain agricultural prod- ucts, and public sector invisibles payments. The "rate in neighboring countries'' of LS 42/43 per US$1 is determined and periodically changed by the Central Bank of Syria and the Commercial Bank of Syria. It applies, on the receipts side, to private remittances, receipts from tourists, 25 percent of export proceeds surrendered by the private sector, and that part of the 75 percent of export proceeds retained by private sector exporters that is not used to finance their own imports or others; and on the payments side, to travel allowances, tourism and medical expenses, student allowances, and remit- tances abroad. The airline rate of LS 30/33 per US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to purchases of airline tickets by Syrian residents; and on the payments side, to transfers abroad by airline companies. Buy- ing and selling rates for other major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official rates of the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates were LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Econ- 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, I ta l ian lire, Jordan dinars, Leb- anese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. omy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Only the Central Bank and the Commercial Bank of Syria may deal in foreign exchange. The Commercial Bank of Syria opens letters of credit and accepts bills for collection without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies that can be obtained for exports. Proceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency from the importing country Pre- scription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian Federation, and Sri Lanka, but the agreements with the latter two countries are inoper- ative. Settlements for imports from the Russian Federation may be made in convertible currencies. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies nonresidents sell to the Commercial Bank of Syria and with other receipts. These accounts may be debited without prior approval with payments to Syrian exporters for exports to the country of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Nonresidents (individuals and corpora- tions) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the Commercial Bank of Syria for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria, transferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Residents other than exporters wishing to open foreign currency accounts are required to present written evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their staffs. Diplomatic and United Nations mis- 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 497 sions and their staffs must exchange 50 percent of their transfers to the Syrian Arab Republic at the official rate and may keep the remaining 50 percent on deposit in foreign exchange with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria or convert it into Syrian pounds at the rate in neighboring countries. The debiting for expenditures in the Syrian Arab Republic and abroad is free. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodi- ties (including paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain private sector importers. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import certain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. The list of permitted goods that can be imported by the pri- vate sector includes certain agricultural goods, industrial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited, with certain exceptions. In principle, imports must come directly from the country of ori- gin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zone are allowed for certain industrial and other goods. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohib- ited imports) from Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from the licensing requirement, in accor- dance with the Arab Common Market Agreement; authorization to import these products is granted in response to a written request. All other imports val- ued at more than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, which the importer must obtain before the date the goods are shipped. A fee ranging from LS25 to LS200 is charged on import licenses. An import surcharge (called a "license fee") of 2 percent is levied on all imports except those by the Government and certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. Private importers pay customs duties on the basis of the official exchange rate, but imports of foodstuffs and certain agricultural and industrial inputs are exempt from customs duties. In addition, there are special levies on imports (a statistical tax and a foreign trade tax). Operations of the state trading agencies are gov- erned by the annual foreign exchange budget. State agencies submit documentation of their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade and automatically receive import licenses. Payments for imports by the Government are effected at the official market rate and imports by public sector enterprises at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. Private sector importers are autho- rized to import products on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. There are currently five avenues available to private sector importers to finance imports: (1) external credit arrangements, including suppli- ers' credits of up to 180 days' maturity and third- party financing; (2) foreign currency deposits main- tained in Syria by Syrians residing abroad; (3) importers' own foreign exchange deposits main- tained abroad; (4) foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the regulations governing retention of export proceeds; and (5) foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed-sector enterprises2 through accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neigh- boring countries. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the rate in neighboring countries. Residents traveling abroad may take with them for- eign exchange, up to a limit of $2,000 a trip to all coun- tries except Jordan and Lebanon. Of this limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a trip may be purchased at the rate in neighboring countries for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a trip for travel to non-Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eli- gible for a foreign exchange travel allowance but may take with them up to LS 5,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this exception, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a foreign coun- try may take with them the entire amount of the allo- cations on producing proof that they have transferred foreign exchange from abroad; otherwise they may take with them only foreign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above-mentioned allocations. For travel to countries with which payments agreements are maintained, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be handled through the clearing account con- cerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an 2 Mixed-sector enterprises are enterprises with at least 25 percent public participation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab coun- tries and LS 1,100 a person for other destinations. A maximum of 60 percent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic and of 50 percent of the sala- ries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and interna- tional missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred abroad. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Administration Commit- tee of the Exchange Office, with the exception of embassies and international organizations, which must convert 50 percent of their transfers at the offi- cial rate and the remaining 50 percent at the rate in neighboring countries. Foreign staff employed in joint ventures are entitled to transfer abroad 50 percent of their salaries. Nonresidents leaving the country are not allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into foreign exchange and must declare any foreign exchange they pos- sess in excess of $5,000. The allowance for educa- tion abroad is subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Higher Education. The transfer of funds abroad for family maintenance is limited to LS 250 a transfer and is effected upon presentation of proof. The allowance for medical treatment must be authorized by the Ministry of Health. Remit- tances of profits from investments must be autho- rized by the Administration Committee of the Exchange Office upon presentation of supporting documents (e.g., a balance sheet or certificate con- firming payment of income tax), except for profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the 1991 Investment Law (see below), which can be repatriated freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are han- dled by the Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for gov- ernment agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Exports under bilateral payments agreements and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter undertakes to repa- triate the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds of exports retained by private and mixed exporters may be used to import goods on a list issued by the Ministry of Economy or may be sold to other private or mixed sector enterprises through accounts held at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. Public sector enterprises may retain 100 percent of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts at the Commercial Bank of Syria and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may sell the pro- ceeds to the Commercial Bank of Syria at the rate in neighboring countries. The rate in neighboring countries is applied to exports of cotton and cotton seeds. Exporters of specified products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export pro- ceeds to finance imports on a permitted list, even if the products to be imported are not directly related to their exporting activity. They may also import on behalf of public sector entities and some other pri- vate sector activities. Most private sector exporters are required to surrender to the Commercial Bank of Syria only 25 percent of their proceeds at the rate in neighboring countries. The remaining 75 percent can be deposited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in specially earmarked foreign currency accounts until import payments are made or foreign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank of Syria. In the case of fru i ts and vegetables, public and private sector exporters may convert 100 percent of the proceeds at the rate in neighbor- ing countries. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements are required first to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies for imports. The retained export proceeds may be deposited in a special export exchange account denominated in foreign currency with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria or may be surrendered at the rate in neighboring countries. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents without referring to the Central Bank of Syria. Exports of ginned cotton receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. A tax ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent ad valo- rem is charged on the value of exports of agricul- tural origin, except fruits and vegetables (which are exempt) and cotton (for which the export tax is 12.5 percent of the value of the exports (f.o.b.) less the cost of transportation within the Syrian Arab Republic). Exports of other agricultural commodi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 499 ties are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be converted at the official rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the rate in neighboring countries. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to bring in up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign exchange in any form without declaring it and may freely bring in Syrian bank notes. Residents may freely bring in for- eign and Syrian bank notes. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organi- zations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at the Commercial Bank of Syria at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills in foreign exchange. All Syrians working abroad are subject to an annual tax of $50-$700, depending on their profession but are allowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued at between $500 and $7,000) if they surrender equiva- lent funds at the rate in neighboring countries. Syr- ian government employees who are on leave and working abroad are required to repatriate and con- vert, at the rate in neighboring countries, a mini- mum of 25 percent of their annual salaries and the allowances they receive in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official rate, while transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case- by-case basis. The exportation of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Under the 1991 Investment Law (Law 10), projects with minimum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the High Council for Investment (HCI) benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations. Imports of neces- sary machinery, equipment, and vehicles for these projects are exempt from customs duties. Mixed companies (i.e., those with at least 25 percent public participation) enjoy seven years of exemption from all taxes, while private companies are exempted from tax payments for five years; these periods may be extended by two years if the project exports at least 50 percent of output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts with the Com- mercial Bank of Syria to finance hard currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 75 percent of foreign currency exports. Funds from these accounts may be provided on demand and may be used to compensate foreign s taff. Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital a f ter five years from the date of investment, and capital may be repatriated af ter six months if the project suffers owing to events beyond the investor's con- trol. All profits may be transferred freely. Foreign staff employed in joint ventures are entitled to transfer abroad all of their severance pay. The Syrian Arab Republic has signed investment guarantee agreements with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Nonresidents other than Arab nationals may acquire immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic only af ter presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to export licensing. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresi- dents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of man- ufac tur ing and the profit earned. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange rate applicable to airline tickets purchased by Syrian residents was changed from LS 20 to LS 30 per US$1, and the exchange rate applicable to transfers abroad by airline companies was changed from LS 22 to LS 33 per US$1. Prescription of Currency January 2. The bilateral payments agreement with Viet Nam was terminated. April 13. Imports from the Russian Federation were allowed to be made in convertible currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments January 1. The list of goods permitted for impor- tation was expanded. March 25. Import licenses were granted w i thout the requ irement of advance import deposits at the Commercial Bank of Syria. A list of 34 miscel- laneous impo rt items, which previously could be f inanced only through the 180-day ex ternal credit, were allowed to be f inanced f rom export proceeds retained at the Commercial Bank of Syria. August 23. Imports eligible for financing with 180-day suppliers' credits were allowed to be set- tled with foreign exchange deposits held in Syria by Syrians residing abroad, foreign exchange deposits held abroad by the importer, and foreign exchange deposited with the Commercial Bank of Syria in accordance with the regulations on retention of export earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 32,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of the currencies of Tan- zania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tanza- nia quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1992, the Bank of Tan- zania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 330 and T Sh 340, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the cross rates for these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Selected transactions may be effected through foreign exchange bureaus that are autho- rized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. The Bank of Tanzania does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. However, authorized dealers may, at their discre- tion, enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanza- nia. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanza- nia to the three authorized banks —the National Bank of Commerce, the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, and the People's Bank of Zan- zibar. With the exception of the transactions made through foreign exchange bureaus, however, all other outward payments must be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over exchange operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho mal- oti, Ma law ian kwacha, Mozambique meticais, Maur i t ian rupees, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zimba- bwe dollars. Ministry of Industries and Trade. The Bank of Tan- zania acts as the registrar of exporters. Responsibil- ity for issuing specific import licenses rests with the Import Controller, and that for issuing export licenses rests with the Board of External Trade; applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls through its Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state trad- ing agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trad- ing Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a convertible nonresident account or loro account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are those maintained by foreign nationals temporarily resident in Tanzania; by firms, companies, or other organizations regis- tered or incorporated outside Tanzania; and by for- eign diplomatic missions, the United Nations, or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania. These accounts are divided into two broad categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any fur ther scrutiny by or approval from the Bank of Tanzania. The bal- ances of nonconvertible accounts may be trans- ferred from Tanzania after approval is obtained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcatego- ries of nonresident accounts: external, shipping/ airline, special, ordinary, expatriate, and unspeci- fied. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals usu- ally resident in Tanzania who have gone abroad for vacation, employment, or other purposes may maintain both special and ordinary accounts in the form of a current, savings, or deposit account. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 TANZANIA Imports and Import Payments Payments for Invisibles Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain imports to the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security All goods with a value exceeding $5,000 require a license before they can be imported into the coun- try Under the Own Foreign Exchange Import Scheme and for imports made through foreign exchange bureaus, import licenses are issued on request, except for a short list of products whose importation is prohibited for reasons of health or security Customs ta r i f fs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the ta r i ff schedule is ad valorem. The rates applied to intermediate and capital goods range from 10 percent to 20 percent, w i th a 40 ercent maximum rate on most consumer goods. Specific duties are levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted for the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; a i rc ra ft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educa- tional, and religious films; printed matter; cable and telephone material; sewing machines; and timber used by mining companies. Discretionary fu ll or par t ial exemptions are allowed by the Min- ister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tan- zania, individual consignments of imports with a value exceeding $5,000 are subject to compulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quantity, quality, and price; partial shipments against a pro forma invoice of T Sh 250,000 or more are also subject to preshipment inspection, irrespec- tive of the value of each shipment. All merchandise imports to the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All imports to Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to a sales tax at rates ranging up to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. This tax is also assessed on sales of domestic products. The importation of certain categories of goods is permitted under an open general license (OGL) sys- tem based on a negative list. Under the OGL sys- tem, the minimum value for each import license is set at $5,000. An OGL import license is valid for four months, and imports must be financed under letters of credit against which advance cash depos- its are made in accordance with the usual commer- cial banking procedures. Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zania. The following transactions are permitted through foreign exchange bureaus: (1) up to $3,000 a trip for travel when a confirmed ticket is pre- sented; (2) an unlimited amount for medical treat- ment abroad, contingent on a certificate from the Ministry of Health stating that the treatment must take place abroad; (3) $20,000 a year for studies abroad, contingent on a certificate issued by the Advisory Committee for Higher Education and Training; and (4) unlimited amounts for remittances of dividends and profits. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment who have a firm commitment to leave Tanzania may remit abroad, throughout their period of employment, up to one-third of their salary to cover expenses, such as family maintenance, or as sav- ings. Applications to remit more than one-third of a salary or more than T Sh 6,000 a month are consid- ered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. A traveler is allowed to take out of the country up to T Sh 1,000 in domestic currency Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, trav- eler's checks, and letters of credit for any remaining amount of the foreign exchange brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of some products are handled by state trading organizations, and exports of certain other products are subject to licenses; if there is a local shortage, exports may be restricted. All princi- pal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zan- zibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to register with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two months of the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania, this period may be extended. Exporters of traditional products may retain up to 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings, and exporters of nontraditional products may retain up to 50 percent. These pro- ceeds can be used to import goods financed by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market, or they may be exchanged through the foreign exchange bureaus. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 503 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning trav- eler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins up to T Sh 1,000. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania perma- nently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. However, those persons who are unable to maintain them- selves and their dependents and with no ostensi- ble means of livelihood outside Tanzania may be granted limited foreign exchange facilities by the Bank of Tanzania on purely compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There are no restrictions on the investment of for- eign funds in Tanzania, but, to ensure eventual repa- triation, these investments should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of status as an approved enterprise under the National Investment Promotion Act of 1990 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. The act distinguishes three areas for foreign investments: (1) controlled areas, which are reserved for public investment or joint public and private enterprises; (2) reserved areas, which are reserved exclusively for investment by the public sector; and (3) areas that are reserved exclusively for Tanzanian citizens. Registered foreign investors may use up to 50 percent of their net foreign exchange earnings for debt servicing or remittances of profits and dividends. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in for- eign exchange. Income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Pur- chases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval from the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numis- matic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to indi- vidual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry issued by the Bank of Tan- zania ire available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement April 21. Foreign exchange bureaus authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates began operation. Regulations governing the licensing of the bureaus were issued by the Bank of Tanzania. The main guidelines governing the oper- ations of these bureaus would be as follows: (1) payments for imports may be made through the bureaus without restriction, but imports with a value exceeding $5,000 would require a letter of credit and be subject to preshipment inspection; (2) foreign exchange up to $3,000 a trip may be pur- chased from the bureaus upon presentation of a confirmed ticket; (3) for purchases of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad, a certificate from the Ministry of Health certifying the need for treatment must be presented upon purchase; (4) for educational expenses, a certificate from the Advisory Committee for Higher Education and Training must be presented, and the total amount purchased must not exceed $20,000 a year; and (5) purchase of foreign exchange for remittances of dividends and profits would not be restricted. Imports and Import Payments April 21. All imports with a value exceeding $5,000 became subject to compulsory preshipment inspections for quantity, quality, and price. April 21. Imports with a value exceeding $5,000 under the OGL and effected through the foreign exchange bureaus were required to be covered by letters of credit opened at commercial banks. April 30. The negative list of imports under the OGL was shortened. The negative list that applies to imports through the bureaus and under the Own For- eign Exchange Import Scheme was limited primarily ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 504 TANZANIA to those items prohibited for reasons of health and security. June 8. The customs du ty rates were amended. The rates on intermediate and capital goods would be 10 to 20 percent, and the rate on most consumer goods would be 40 percent. Specific duties would be levied on alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and various petroleum products. Sales tax rates (payable on imports and domestic products) were reduced to four: 0,10,20, and 30 percent. December 1. The minimum value of imports that do not require import licenses was raised to $5,000. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The surrender requirement ratio for tra- ditional exports was introduced at 10 percent, and the ratio for nontraditional products was raised to 50 percent from 35 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners and on other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces the daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maxi- mum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in Brunei dol- lars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Philippine pesos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 30, 1992, the middle official rate was B 25.52 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For- ward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transac- tions must be related to underlying trade and finan- cial transactions. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium in the baht-U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usu- ally reflects interest differentials between the two currencies. Thailand formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 4,1990. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank of Thailand delegates responsibility to autho- rized banks (commercial banks) for approving most transactions. Apart from authorized banks, autho- rized companies and authorized persons are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange operations, although their activities are limited to the buying and selling of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks up to a set amount prescribed by the Bank of Thailand. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. There are no special requirements for currencies that can be used in settlements with foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in foreign currencies are designated as foreign currency accounts. No restrictions are placed on the opening of foreign currency accounts as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on these accounts earn interest and may be transferred abroad without restriction. Nonresidents may also open nonresident baht accounts. These accounts may be debited without restriction and credited freely with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies originating abroad, proceeds from exports of goods and services, and funds transferred from other nonresident baht accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for certain others. Imports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Importers of tea leaf, tea dust, and skimmed milk are required to purchase a propor- tionate quantity of the same type of goods pro- duced in Thailand. A few agricultural goods are subject to temporary import surcharges ranging from B 811 to B 1,786 per metric ton. Subsidies are also provided for certain goods. Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose values exceed B 500,000 when submitting the import entry form at customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Payments for imports may be made through any authorized bank. Importers may freely purchase foreign currency or draw foreign exchange from their own foreign currency accounts for payments. Payments for Invisibles Remittances abroad of service fees, royalties, insur- ance premiums, educational expenses, and family maintenance are permitted without restriction. Remit- tances of dividends and profits on all bona fide invest- ments may be made freely. Authorized banks are also 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 THAILAND permitted to sell up to $100,000 a person a year in for- eign exchange for remittances to families and relatives living abroad and for remittances of up to $1 million a person a year from the personal assets of Thai emi- grants who have permanent residence permits abroad. Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions involving amounts of more than $5,000. Authorized money changers are allowed to sell up to $2,000 or its equivalent a person in foreign exchange. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to the countries bordering Thailand and Viet Nam are allowed to take out a maximum of B 250,000. Authorized banks are per- mitted to sell foreign exchange in foreign bank notes for purposes of travel without restriction; sales of amounts exceeding $20,000 in other forms (such as traveler's checks or draf ts) require authori- zation from the Bank of Thailand. Nonresidents may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought into Thailand. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to licens- ing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.1 All other products may be exported freely. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transac- tion forms for transactions involving more than B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds to authorized banks or deposit them in for- eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. However, export proceeds used to repay foreign debts or finance imports do not need to be deposited locally. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in for- eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and interna- tional organizations are exempted from this require- ment. Authorized money changers are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coins or travel- er's checks in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks within 15 days of pur- 1 These include sorghum, rice, canned tuna, all types of sugar, and certain types of coal, charcoal, and textile products. chase. Travelers may bring in domestic or foreign bank notes and coins without restriction. Capital Capital investments in Thailand through equity participation or portfolio investments are permitted freely. Foreign investments in Thailand that receive promotional privileges from the Board of Invest- ment under the Investment Promotion Act (B.E. 2520) are accorded various incentives and special benefits. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without restriction, but pro- ceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with autho- rized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Repatriation of investment funds, loan repayments, and interest payments may be made without restriction. Inflows and outflows of funds exceed- ing $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to comple- tion of foreign exchange transaction forms. External borrowing by the public sector must be approved by the Foreign Debt Committee. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency not more than $5 million or its equivalent. Foreign currency loans may be extended to residents for outward remit- tance or domestic use. If loans are used domesti- cally, resident borrowers are required to convert the foreign currency obtained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign currency accounts. Direct investments abroad by Thai residents or lending to companies abroad that have at least 25 percent equity participation by Thai residents is permitted up to $5 million a year without authoriza- tion from the Bank of Thailand. Portfolio investments and purchases of properties abroad by Thai residents require approval from the Bank of Thailand. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the Ministry of Finance or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or platinum ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 507 forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export du ty or taxes. Changes During 1992 Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. Export controls on the following prod- ucts were lifted: maize, soybeans, platinum, jew- elry, brass and copper (except finished products), steel rods and flats, scrap iron, scrap aluminum, pesticides, chemical fertilizer, and pulp for paper products. May 1. Exporters were allowed to accept pay- ments in domestic currency from nonresident baht accounts without Prior aPProval from the Central Bank. Exporters were permitted to use the proceeds to service external obligations and pay for imports without depositing the proceeds in domestic bank- ing accounts (previously, proceeds were required to be on deposit within 15 days of receipt). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 per F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. Banks levy a proportional commission of 2.50 per mil and a fixed charge of F 100 per transaction on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU); these charges must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of the importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts can be no more than three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Camer- oon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo; inward direct investment and all outward investment; and l rThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2 Transfers between member countries of the union are free of any commission. the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in for- eign countries. The Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regula- tions concerning amounts equal to or exceeding CFAF 500,000 and on specific requests from viola- tors of foreign exchange regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly through economic agents or through the banks, financial institutions, Postal and Telecommunications Office (Office des postes et telecommunications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. The forwarding and receipt of bank notes through the mail by autho- rized intermediaries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. All required import licenses and vir- tually all required export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Licenses for the exportation of cereals and other food crops are approved by the Council of Ministers and issued by the National Export Licens- ing Commission within the quota and volume lim- its set by the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports. Exports of locally manufactured products and imports of nearly all products are not subject to licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current pay- ments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 509 those countries, or in French francs through foreign accounts in francs. Nonresident Accounts The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to foreign accounts held by foreign corre- spondents of authorized banks; these accounts may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO agency in Lome by the foreign corre- spondents. Foreign accounts in francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohib- ited. All other imports may be made freely, with the following exceptions: (1) licenses are required for imports of printed piece goods of Japanese origin; (2) imports of footwear, other than luxury or sports footwear, with an f.o.b. value of less than CFAF 3,000, are conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local prod- uct; (3) import licenses must be issued beforehand by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation for cement and wheat flour; (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be imported only by dealers legally established in Togo who possess an authorization from the Ministry of Com- merce and Transportation; (5) imports of pharma- ceutical products, explosives, and firearms are subject to special arrangements; (6) imports of sugar, rice, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and ciga- rettes are subject to special approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; and (7) imports of potatoes were prohibited between August 31, 1991 and February 28,1992. The following taxes are imposed on all imports: (1) a statistical tax of 3 percent; (2) a fiscal import duty of 5 percent to 35 percent; (3) a general tax of 5 percent to 30 percent on businesses; and (4) a tem- porary tax of 15 percent on imports of locally pro- duced goods. With the exception of the general business tax, which is assessed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imports inclusive of fiscal import duties, all other taxes are levied on c.i.f. values. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a private nature. Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts (dossiers de domicilia- tiori) and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a doc- umentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payments are subject to prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance; such authori- zation may be granted only on the date payment is due and only for up to 30 percent for each transac- tion involving capital goods and up to 10 percent for other transactions. All import operations exceeding CFAF 200,000 are conditional on mer- chandise insurance that is taken out and domiciled with an approved insurance company in Togo. Inspection of the quality, quantity, and price of imports has been suspended. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authori- zation when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also gener- ally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, of up to CFAF 50,000 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 TOGO transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the Operations Account Area. Resident travelers to other countries of the Operations Account Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, must declare to customs any amount taken out above CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coins up to the amount declared on entry3 or, if no declaration was made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount in letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses only in certain cases. All exports to South Africa are prohib- ited. The Togolese Office of Phosphates has a monopoly over the exportation of phosphates, and the Office of Togolese Agricultural Products has a monopoly over the exportation of cocoa, coffee, cot- ton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but licenses are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports deter- mines that there is a food grain surplus. The Techni- cal Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable sur- plus, and again before November 10 to establish the actual export ceilings. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, including the Opera- tions Account Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized diamond pur- chasing offices, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the Operations Account coun- tries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The domi- 3 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign cur- rency sold for CFA francs; and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a foreign account in francs or a foreign account in foreign currency, (b) the conversion of instruments such as foreign currency trave ler's checks that are made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign cur- rency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. ciling bank is responsible for ensuring effective repatriation of such receipts through the BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and for- eign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the Operations Account Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval from the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment; the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Togo; and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or can be substi- tuted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 511 All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance,4 and at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign bor- rowing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the projects. Total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior reporting to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. (Direct investments are investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange.) Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain cir- cumstances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization from the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may, for a specified number of years, be granted special privileges relat- ing to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemp- tion from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Code adopted on October 31, 1989 aims at promoting local employment and small and medium-size Togolese enterprises and at developing local resources. To obtain the tax bene- fits under this code, firms must (1) provide an amount from equity equivalent to at least 25 percent of the amount net of taxes to finance new projects (excluding working capital), and (2) pay at least 60 percent of their wage bill to workers who are nationals of Togo. Tax benefits include primarily exemptions from the minimum for fait tax and cor- porate income taxes for five years for small and medium-size enterprises, seven years for enter- prises that process domestic raw materials, and three years for other enterprises. The code guaran- tees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. The importation and exportation of gold to or from any other country require prior authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments 4 Including investments made through foreign companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 5 Including those made by companies in Togo directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. April 22. The importation of concrete reinforced bars was permitted. April 28. The prohibition on imports of frozen chicken and meat was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga. Its external value is determined on the basis of a weighted bas- ket of currencies. These weights are related to the currencies' shares in Tonga's international transac- tions. The National Reserve Bank of Tonga (the cen- tral bank) maintains buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The Bank of Tonga (a commercial bank) quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their values against the pa'anga. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is approximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of approximately 1.5 percent, and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. On Decem- ber 31, 1992, the exchange rate (midpoint) of the pa'anga for the U.S. dollar was T$ 1.389 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange; the one exception occurred between July and November of 1992, when the foreign exchange tax was in effect. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Tonga formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22,1991. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies that can be used in particular transactions. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required for all imports, although the authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward issuing these licenses. Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural or environmental reasons or to protect the health and safety of residents. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are aimed primarily at increasing revenues, but protec- tive tariffs are levied on a few items, such as beer, paint, and wire fencing. Tariffs are levied at an ad valorem rate on the c.i.f. value of most imports; a few items (petroleum and tobacco products and alcoholic beverages) are subject to specific tariffs. The maximum tariff rate, which is levied on motor vehicles, is 45 percent. Imports by the reigning monarch, the Government and public sector, and diplomatic missions, as well as goods imported under certain technical assistance agreements, are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20 percent port and services tax. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required for all exports, except for shipments weighing less than 10 kilograms. With the exception of squash, which is subject to an export quota, the authorities maintain a liberal atti- tude toward granting those licenses. Effective Janu- ary 1, 1992, the monopoly of the Commodities Board over exports of coconut and coconut deriva- tives, vanilla, and bananas was abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles The Bank of Tonga is authorized to provide for- eign exchange for invisible payments up to T$ 1,000 a year. The Ministry of Finance may approve requests for amounts exceeding T$ 1,000 a year upon submission of satisfactory documentary evidence that the underlying transaction is a bona fide current international transaction. Such approv- als are routinely granted without undue delay. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freight earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns forwarded to their respective head offices. Capital 1 C an ad i an do l lars, deu tsche ma rk, Fiji do l lars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Ind i an rupees, I t a l i an lire, J ap a- nese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, New Zea land do l la rs, pounds sterling, Singapore dollarss, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la rs. The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, although so far such investment remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for licenses, with approval 512 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 513 depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic production rather than compete with it are generally preferred. Under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, foreign investors involved in manufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inputs, a 15-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. In principle, Tongan residents are not permitted to acquire financial assets abroad, although in prac- tice this restriction is not enforced. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement July 1. A tax of 0.7 percent was levied on all for- eign exchange transactions. November 17. The foreign exchange tax intro- duced in July was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. A quota was established for squash exports, primarily to ensure quality control. For the 1992/93 crop, the quota was set at 10,000 metric tons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of April 30,1993) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar is determined in the interbank market on the basis of supply and demand conditions. Banks are allowed to con- duct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public w i thout limitation. At the end of each trading day, the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago publishes a nominal rate for the Trinidad and Tobago dollar against each of the major currencies, based on a weighted aver- age of the rates at which these currencies have been trading. Administration of Control The au thor i ty to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, which acts under the au tho r i ty of the M in is try of Finance. The exchange control system provides for compul- sory surrender of foreign currency and for con- trol over both cu r rent and cap i tal transactions. Payments to South A f r ica are prohibited. Approval au tho r i ty with respect to payments for visible imports has been delegated to the Minis- try of Trade, Industry, and Tourism and the Cus- toms and Excise Depar tment in Tobago, which also issues import and export licenses when nec- essary. Short-term credit transactions, including ove rd ra ft facilities, by resident banks to nonresi- dents and local nonresident-controlled compa- nies, are also subject to control. Commercial banks can purchase foreign currency notes from the public, and the Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commer- cial banks for repatriation to the respective mone- tary authorities under bilateral arrangements. The Central Bank does not repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in specified currencies.2 Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified cur- rency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts: external accounts, blocked accounts, and Trinidad and Tobago dollar accounts (which nonresidents may open in local commercial banks with approval from the Central Bank). External accounts denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents of Trinidad and Tobago may use these accounts for the credit of payments approved by the Central Bank, transfers from other external accounts, and proceeds from sales of gold and for- eign currencies to an authorized dealer. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, transfers to other external accounts, and purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts may be converted into U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and trans- ferred freely to residents of countries outside Trin- idad and Tobago. Balances in these accounts are not included in the calculation of limits on commercial banks' net position (see section on Capital, below). Blocked accounts are normally credited with the bal- ance of the capital assets of persons who have emi- grated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of balances on blocked accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities with the permission of the Central Bank. Income derived from blocked accounts (such as interest and rents) is freely remittable at the spot exchange rate, provided that all tax liabilities are met. Generally, funds held in blocked accounts are eligible for remit- tance to nonresidents on an annual basis. 1 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are con- sidered foreign currencies. In certain cases, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of foreign currency receipts in a foreign currency account (see section on Foreign Currency Accounts). 2Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 515 Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago dollars are held in local commercial banks by nonresidents with the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by residents and nonresidents. Foreign currency accounts held abroad may be credited and debited only with those transactions authorized by the Cen- tral Bank. Approval from the Central Bank is required before balances on these accounts can be used for debt-service payments, transfers of divi- dends and profits, and investment abroad. Holders of foreign currency accounts are required to submit periodic statements of credits and debits to the Cen- tral Bank. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported under open general license (OGL) arrangements. Imports of some goods (certain food items, paper and paper products used for wrapping tobacco or cigarettes, used motor vehi- cles, and ships and boats under 250 tons) are subject to the provisions of a negative list, and imports of these products require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either pro- hibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petro- leum, and edible oil are traded by the state. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. Licenses for imports of certain inputs for manu- facturing industries are issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manufacturers. These inputs do not require a spe- cific license if they originate from or are consigned by sources whose goods are all subject to an import license. When specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism before orders are placed. Imports of certain food products are subject to the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARI- COM Treaty.3 Trade with South Africa is prohib- ited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the Russian Federation, the Slovak Republic, the states 3 The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Baha- mas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. of the former U.S.S.R., the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the negative list status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which goods are satis- factorily invoiced. The customs du ty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 45 percent, the same range as the common external tar iff (GET) of the CARICOM region that entered into effect on January 1, 1991.4 In addition, a second schedule in the form of sur- charges on imports from non-CARICOM countries of up to 100 percent of the c.i.f. value has been added to provide protection for items removed from the negative list. The du ty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, cloth- ing, and cotton and silk fabrics, range from 30 per- cent to 60 percent; the rate on motor vehicles is 45 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materials, and all goods originating from CARICOM countries, are exempt from customs duties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted partial or total exemptions from customs duties by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Tour- ism on the recommendation of the Industrial Devel- opment Corporation (IDC). Stamp duties are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foodstuffs, medicines, books, newsprint, and raw materials are exempt.6 Purchase taxes at rates ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent are levied on imported consumer goods. Certain domestically produced goods are also subject to the tax. 4 In October 1992, the heads of government of the CARICOM countries agreed to a phased reduction of the CET rates. Begin- ning Janua ry 1, 1993, the Trinidad and Tobago authorities accordingly adopted a new schedule of rates ranging from 5 percent to 35 percent. 5 The related schedule of surcharges and stamp duties was reduced to the ranges of 10-25 percent and 10-20 percent, respectively, effective Janua ry 1,1993. Previously exempt imported raw materials and intermediate inputs became subject to a tariff of 5 percent, effective Janua ry 1, 1993. In conjunction with this measure, the issuance of duty-free licenses granted to local concessionaire manu fac tu re rs has been discontinued. Exporters providing documentation on import duties paid on raw materials and on their exports may obtain a rebate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Payments for Invisibles Payments for current international transactions to South Africa are prohibited. There are no other restrictions on payments for invisibles. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trin- idad and Tobago local currency notes up to the value of TT$20,00. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foodstuffs, fire- arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted by OGL. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be repatriated within a reasonable period; exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, however, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. Exporters who have earned foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements are permitted to retain all of their earnings in foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds for authorized payments. In prac- tice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operat- ing in Trinidad and Tobago repatriates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. The company must submit periodic documents of its exchange transactions to the authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in for- eign currencies must be surrendered, but those earned by designated exporters may be retained in foreign currency accounts. Residents and nonresi- dents may bring into Trinidad and Tobago domestic currency notes up to the value of TT$20,000. Both resident and nonresident travelers may bring in for- eign currency notes up to US$5,000 without a declaration to the Controller of Customs. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require the approval of the Central Bank. Securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars and held by nonresidents must be lodged with authorized depositories, 24 of which have been appointed. The importation and exportation of all securities other than those expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars require approval from the Central Bank. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may be remitted with approval from the Central Bank. All foreign investments, whether in cash or in kind, are usually eligible for repatria- tion, provided they have been registered with the Central Bank. When funds are received for invest- ment, local banks authenticate the receipt of such funds from foreign sources. If the value of the asset concerned appreciates, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a period of time, depending on the balance of payments situation. With prior approval from the Central Bank, resi- dents may transfer prescribed securities to persons who reside outside Trinidad and Tobago, provided that the full proceeds of sales are received in foreign currency. Residents are not usually granted foreign exchange for portfolio investment in foreign securi- ties, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange or, with prior approval from the Central Bank, be invested in similar securities outside Trinidad and Tobago. Nonresidents may sell local securities, pro- vided that the proceeds are credited to a nonresi- dent account or reinvested in other local securities. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act of 1990 in order to hold an interest in real estate or shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their invest- ments from the Central Bank in order to repatriate capital and capital gains. Foreign investors who have obtained an "approved investment status" are permitted to borrow locally up to the equivalent of 30 percent of the capital invested in the country. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import-substi- tution industries. Since 1973, these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agreement on the harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to approved enterprises, including temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges outlined in the Investment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 517 There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant credit to nonresident individuals and firms and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such companies are usually required to raise any local capital they need to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trin- idad and Tobago. A commercial bank, as an autho- rized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Each commer- cial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permit- ted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the other two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control pur- poses in cross-border trading. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coins and bullion. The regulations stip- ulate that, except with specific exemptions and per- missions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between resi- dents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. When appropriate, however, residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to an open general license, but imports of other forms of gold are sub- ject to specific import licenses that are not usually issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold in any form are subject to specific export licenses; licenses for gold other than jewelry are not usually granted except to the monetary authorities. Changes During 1992 Foreign Currency Accounts April 1. Designated exporters were permitted to retain all of their eligible export earnings in foreign currency accounts (previously, 20 percent of such earnings were required to be surrendered to the commercial banks). Imports and Import Payments July 16. Most remaining quantitative restrictions on imports of non-oil manufactured goods were replaced by equivalent tariffs ranging from 5 percent to 45 percent and surcharges of up to 100 percent. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement April 13. The exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar ceased to be pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, and the exchange rate of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar was allowed to be determined by demand and supply in the interbank market. Administration of Control April 13. All exchange controls relating both to current and capital transactions were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of January 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement Administration of Control The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar, whose exchange value is determined according to a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1992, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.17200 and D 0.17372, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.9459 and D 0.9554, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain for- ward exchange cover from the authorized banks as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward cover may be established for a maximum of 12 months for imports and a maxi- mum of 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Swaps are per- mitted among foreign currency operators. Trading on 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options on French francs, deutsche mark, and U.S. dollars is available to resident borrowers of foreign exchange under standard contracts. The Central Bank extends exchange rate guarantees to certain officially guar- anteed loans, with risk premiums based on domestic and international interest rates. Tunisia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from January 6,1993. 1 Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Libyan dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Ara- bian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Luxembourg francs, Qa tar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Minis- try of National Economy, in consultation with the Central Bank, for products that are subject to import or export prohibition or liberalization as well as for imports that are subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and its trade agreements with foreign countries. Import and export licenses are issued by the Minis- try of National Economy, with the endorsement of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Algeria, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars may be opened by (1) na tural persons of Tunisian nationality changing their normal resi- dence to Tunisia from abroad and any other na tu- ral or jur id ical persons of Tunisian nationality for their nontransferable assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) na tu ral persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (3) foreign juridical persons for their establishments located in Tunisia; and (4) Tunisian diplomats and civil servants stationed abroad. No formalities are required for the open- ing of these accounts by foreigners; a declaration of holdings, however, is required for Tunisians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to unde r take foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 519 another special account in foreign currency or con- vertible dinars; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims). Payments abroad are subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. Foreign accounts in convertible dinars and convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible for- eign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible currencies to the Central Bank; bank notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign currencies remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by debit of a foreign account in convertible dinars; (4) authorized payments by resi- dents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (7) the proceeds from the cashing of checks, travel- er's checks, or draf ts expressed in convertible cur- rencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization from the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be deb- ited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irrespective of the payer's country of residence); (2) transfers to other foreign accounts; (3) the pur- chase of any foreign currency from, or sales of any foreign exchange to, the Central Bank; and (4) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident ben- eficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Internal nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of nonresi- dent individuals of foreign nationality residing tem- porarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the Central Bank with the following: (1) transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular the nontransfera- ble part of remuneration for services rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates opened in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another internal non- resident account opened in the name of the account holder. They may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her family in Tunisia; (2) payments of costs of managing property in Tuni- sia; (3) lending to residents; and (4) transfers to another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. Special dinar accounts may be freely opened by non- resident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank. Such enter- prises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a foreign account in con- vertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank. Interest is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon gen- eral or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for spe- cific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, for pur- chases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio man- agement expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of manag- ing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the next year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 TUNISIA expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Natural persons of for- eign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31,1975. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident account holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country The opening of a capital account by a nonresident of Tunisian nation- ality or his or her spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global capi- tal accounts for their nonresident customers. Sub- ject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of Tunisian securities; the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de cassation), or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family for trips to Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the subsequent year. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to cer- tain conditions, for expenses connected with the man- agement of Tunisian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the exception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a per- son a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Balances held by natural per- sons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31,1975 may be transferred abroad. Individuals and juridical per- sons of French or Italian nationality holding capital accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa and imports of some items from all sources are prohib- ited. A system of import controls is applied under which different procedures apply to different oper- ators (manufacturers, traders, and state monopo- lies), and special procedures apply to specified categories of transactions (e.g., export firms and imports without payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected freely or upon authoriza- tion. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in Official Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981, as amended subsequently. The importation of liberal- ized products is effected by an import certificate, obtained upon presentation of a commercial con- tract, domiciled with an authorized intermediary. The import certificate procedure may be used under certain conditions by industrial enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw materials and semifinished products used in their production; enterprises exporting less than 15 percent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import cer- tificate procedure may also be used by investment promoters of authorized or declared investments for normally prohibited imports of capital goods that are required for their projects. The same procedure applies to capital goods imported by commercial representatives in Tunisia. The importation of authorized goods is effected under cover of an import license, annual import authorization, or an import card. Licenses are approved and issued by the Ministry of National Economy and endorsed by the Central Bank. Import licenses are usually valid for six months but may be extended in some cases according to import requirements. Under the licensing system, a system of "traders' quotas" is also applied to certain com- modity groups, with special emphasis on consumer durables. Quotas are allocated on the basis of a "point system," with the most important criteria relating to the size of the firm (employment and turnover, which differentiates between sales from imports and those from domestically produced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 521 goods). Geographical location, the degree of spe- cialization, and the age of the firm are also consid- ered in the allocation process. Annual import authorizations are issued by the Ministry of National Economy to certain categories of transactions on the basis of an annual import program. Import applications under the program must include a detailed document that gives infor- mation on expected import requirements for the following year, on the actual consumption of imported inputs in the previous year, and on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authoriza- tions are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an auto- matic one-year extension of the unused portion on December 31 of that year. Without prior authoriza- tion, importers may, in certain cases, substitute the products authorized for other products within the overall limit stipulated in their import authoriza- tions. During the year, they may also request addi- tional imports by documenting the use of the amount allotted them. Import cards are issued to importers in certain sectors. These are available to importers in produc- tive sectors of economic activity (for example, cot- tage craft industry and agriculture) to import goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year. With prior authoriza- tion imports of raw materials, semifinished prod- ucts, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources outside Tunisia, may be effected without foreign trade formalities by enterprises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. Furthermore, manufac- turing industries producing exclusively for expor- tation and covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and companies exclusively engaged in exporting busi- ness covered by Law No. 89-100 may import freely without foreign trade formalities any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. State trading organizations are the exclusive importers of about 25 percent of the total value of imports, and about 40 percent of these imports con- sist of energy products. Among the important pub- lic trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des cereales (for grains), Ellouhoum (for meat), and the Office national de 1'huile (for vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, tobacco, and medical products are imported exclusively by other state agencies. The state trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of specified products. State trading agen- cies are required to complete the same foreign trade formalities as those that apply to the private sector. Importers must receive a customs code number before they can obtain an import certificate, an import authorization, an import license, or an import card. All import documents involving pay- ments must be handled by one or more authorized banks. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments that have received general or specific prior authorization. Resident importers are autho- rized to buy forward foreign currencies required for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of 12 months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the value-added tax and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. In some cases, imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for fu ll or partial exemption from import duties. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to authoriza- tion from the Central Bank, with the exception of the following: (1) payments of interest and repay- ment of principal for debts contracted under nor- mal conditions by residents with nonresidents; (2) reinsurance balances; (3) subscriptions to maga- zines or periodicals and dues paid to associations; and (4) profits, dividends, fees, and remuneration for founders' shares (net of taxes) made to nonresi- dents by companies headquartered abroad. Exporters may debit their professional accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) for payments of expenses needed to carry out business activities. Resident enterprises exclu- sively engaged in exporting business governed by Laws No. 87-51 and 89/100 may freely make pay- ments abroad for their production activities. Inter- national trading companies governed by Law No. 88-100 are authorized to engage freely in any trans- fers related to their international business activities. Contractually employed foreign nationals, sala- ried workers who are nationals of Tunisia, foreign experts employed by the public sector, and techni- cal assistants may transfer up to 50 percent of their earnings. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea, except to the countries of the Arab Maghreb Union, are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons trav- eling under the Agence de cooperation technique, emigrant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children liv- ing in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 TUNISIA traveling for medical reasons are exempt from the tax. The exportation of Tunisian d inar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohib- ited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain non- energy exports (amounting to about 10 percent of the total in 1990) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of National Economy. With the excep- tions noted below, all export proceeds must be repa- triated and surrendered within 10 days of the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Under certain conditions, approval from the Central Bank is not required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters may sell for- ward, for a maximum term of 9 months (12 months for providers of services), foreign currencies repre- senting the proceeds from their merchandise exports through authorized intermediaries. Any resident individual or foreign legal entity with foreign exchange receipts deriving from pro- fessional activity may freely open a professional account in foreign exchange or convertible dinars and deposit therein 10 percent of any foreign exchange proceeds; balances on such an account may be used without restriction. The same account may be used for 4 percent of domestic receipts in dinars from sales to resident industrial enterprises producing solely for exportation and to resident international trade firms. Authorized intermediar- ies may grant any surety or guarantee to resident exporters and providers of services according to standard international trade practices. Resident manufacturing industries that produce exclusively for exportation and are approved under the terms of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may arrange to credit 4 percent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds to business travel portfolios in con- vertible dinars. Professional accounts may be opened freely by enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output and may be credited with 20 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Bal- ances on these accounts may be used for any for- eign exchange transaction with specific or general authorization, such as payments of expenses needed for the enterprise's activities and servicing of external obligations. Balances in these accounts and nonresident accounts may be placed on the money market in foreign exchange. Banks may use nontransferable foreign exchange resources in these accounts to finance external trade operations car- ried out by nonresident industrial enterprises estab- lished in Tunisia, for granting operating loans to these enterprises, and for carrying out foreign exchange swap operations. Under the provisions of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51, Law No. 88-110, and Law No. 89-100, nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises and nonresident inter- national trading companies (i.e., enterprises with at least 66 percent capital ownership by nonresi- dents and financed through the importation of convertible currencies and nonresident service companies) are not required to repatriate and sur- render their export proceeds. Resident banks are also authorized to finance foreign trade operations carried out by nonresident industrial enterprises and to make working capital loans for terms not exceeding 12 months. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons residing abroad and all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign countries. However, certain facilities are associated with pro- fessional accounts and with professional accounts in foreign exchange for such proceeds or resources (see sections on Exports and Export Proceeds and Resident and Nonresident Accounts —specifically, professional accounts in convertible dinars or in foreign exchange —above). Foreign bank notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of more than D 500 in foreign exchange must submit a currency declaration upon entry. The reconversion of Tunisian bank notes by nonresident travelers is not limited if the stay exceeds 24 hours; it is limited to 30 percent of the amount converted, or not more than D 100, if the stay exceeds 24 hours. The importation of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Tunisia receives, depending on the sector involved, the benefits provided under the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35); Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for finan- cial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents; Law No. 87-51 of August 2,1987, establishing the Industrial Investment Code; Law No. 88-110 of August 18,1988, providing incentives for international trading companies; Law No. 88-18 of April 2, 1988, promulgating the Invest- ment, Agricultural, and Fisheries Code; Law No. 89- 100 of November 17, 1989, establishing investment incentives in the services area; and Law No. 90-21 of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 523 March 19, 1990, providing incentives for investment in tourism. These benefits include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatri- ate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liquidation, even if these exceed the initial foreign exchange investment, plus the income from its capital. The transfer of principal is subject to authorization. However, the following may be freely transferred to nonresident stock holders by an authorized intermediary: dividends, fees, and remunerations for founders' shares (net of taxes) dis- tributed by companies listed on the stock exchange; companies governed by one of the laws concerning the promotion of investment in Tunisia; companies for which exports represent 15 percent or more of turn- over; and companies in which 50 percent or more of the capital is held by residents. Law No. 85-108 of December 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents, extended the field of activity of such institutions; these institutions are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their nonresident customers and to engage in banking and exchange operations with residents, in particular to provide foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, to invest their own foreign exchange resources in equities of resident enterprises, and to accept under certain conditions funds from residents that can be used to finance productive activities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left the country permanently are entitled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) if they left Tunisia before August 20, 1970;2 D 4,000 if they left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 if they left between January 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 if they left a f ter December 31,1974; D 15,000 if they left Tunisia a f ter December 31,1978, are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and an unlimited amount if they are of French or Italian nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. All capital transfers by residents, the contracting of foreign loans by residents above certain limits, and the extension of loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank, except investment credits granted by resident banks to nonresident enterprises (Title 2 of Law No. 87-51) out of their external resources. Furthermore, international trad- ing companies are authorized to contract loans in foreign exchange with nonresident banks estab- 2 Such persons may t rans fer D 1,750 if the total v a l ue of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. lished in Tunisia or abroad to finance their interna- tional business operations. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require joint authorization from the Central Bank and the Ministry of National Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The exportation of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Law No. 91-98 with the following main provisions came into effect: (1) the list of products subject to temporary compensatory import duties was modified; (2) the temporary surcharge on import duties and taxes was extended until the end of 1992; (3) insecticides used by the agricultural sec- tor were exempted from customs duties; and (4) the suspension and reduction of customs duties on imports of certain raw materials and articles were extended until December 31,1992. January 31. The list of liberalized imports was expanded. May 29. The extension of the list of liberalized imports was fur ther expanded. Capital August 3. Law No. 92-81 established regulations governing the creation of, and the trade and pay- ments regime for, free trade zones. Changes During 1993 Exchange Arrangement January 6. Tunisia formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Payments for Invisibles January 6. (1) The foreign exchange allowance for Tunisians traveling abroad for tourist purposes was increased to D 500 from D 250 a year for each adult and to D 250 from D 100 forchildren under 10 years of age; (2) the annual ceiling on business travel i n c l u d ed in professional accounts and business travel by exporters was increased to the range of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 TUNISIA D 10,000 to D 80,000, that on business travel allow- ances for importers was increased to the range of D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on the import turn- over, and that on others, including professionals, was increased to the range of D 2,000 to D 20,000; (3) the annual settlement allowance for students was increased to D 1,000 from D 500, and the monthly allowance for educational expenses abroad, which had ranged from D240 to D400 depending on the host country, was increased to D 600; and (4) private enterprises, irrespective of their nature of business, were allowed, with sup- porting documentary proof, to make payments in foreign exchange through approved intermediaries for all expenditures pertaining to services needed for their activities. January 6. The Central Bank started granting approval for all bona fide exchange applications for the purpose of tourist travel, educational expenses, and business travel in excess of the specified limits. January 6. Prior approval from the Central Bank for payment of living allowances and retirement pensions for residents in countries that have recip- rocal arrangements with Tunisia was eliminated. January 6. Prior authorization from the Central Bank for banks and firms borrowing abroad within the limits was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions, and Turkey fol- lows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the Turkish lira against the U.S. dollar is determined in the daily fixing sessions held in the Central Bank of Turkey. Commercial banks, special finance institutions, authorized insti- tutions, and the Central Bank can participate in the daily fixing session by giving two-way quotations for amounts not exceeding $400,000 with spreads between the purchase and sale prices not exceeding 0.25 percent. Once the Turkish lira-U.S. dollar exchange rate is determined in the fixing session, exchange rates for other currencies are set on the basis of the cross rates with the U.S. dollar in international markets. These rates then become the official exchange rate of the following day and are used in the Central Bank's transactions and for official, statistical pur- poses. Commercial banks, special financial institu- tions, and authorized institutions are free to set their exchange rates once a day for foreign exchange transactions that do not exceed $3,000 and are required to inform the Central Bank. In for- eign exchange transactions exceeding $3,000, the exchange rate for each transaction is also deter- mined freely between these institutions and the parties concerned. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions must be reported daily to the Central Bank. The commercial banks are free to establish their own buying and selling rates in the interbank mar- ket, through which foreign exchange transactions between the Central Bank and the commercial banks take place. To facilitate quotations of interbank rates during the day, as well as during the week, both one- way and two-way quotations are in operation. On December 31, 1992, the Central Bank's official buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 8,555.85 and LT 8,573.00, respectively, per US$1. On December 31,1992, the average rate in the inter- bank market for the U.S. dollar was LT 8,602 per US$1. The commercial banks can deal freely in forward transactions within the predetermined limits imposed by the Central Bank. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international practices. Banks may enter into swap transactions with the Central Bank up to a maximum forward period of 12 months. Turkey formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22,1990. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Undersecre- tariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is attached. Administration of exchange controls has been dele- gated to the Central Bank, which regulates all mat- ters related to foreign exchange operations. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, who also issues export licenses but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, Turkey notified the Fund on August 5, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restric- tions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency Certain commercial transactions with the Czech Republic, Poland, the Slovak Republic, and the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through spe- cial accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange and Turkish liras with autho- rized commercial banks. The holders may dispose of such accounts at their discretion. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 TURKEY Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable, except for those explicitly prohibited by special laws, such as nar- cotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition. Imports of these goods are allowed only with a special permit from the authorities. Old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a project (except wasted and residual goods), permission may be given by the State Planning Organization. All commercial imports require import licenses; their length of validity is determined by the autho- rized parties and may be extended according to prin- ciples determined by the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industri- alists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for any authorized person to apply to any bank for an import license. The import license permits the neces- sary foreign exchange payments to be made and per- mits goods to be cleared through customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (that is, upon customs clear- ance), or by way of acceptance credits. Partial pre- payments are authorized under certain conditions. Import payments may be made through foreign exchange deposit accounts held with banks. Export- ers and providers of services are freely allowed to use foreign exchange earned from exports of goods (excluding the portion subject to surrender require- ments) and services for payment of their own imports. Regulations governing imports made without allocations of foreign exchange from the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or professional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey and temporary imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties, based on the Harmonized Com- modity Description and Coding System, range up to 10 percent on raw materials, between 10 percent and 30 percent on intermediate and semifinished products, and between 30 percent and 50 percent on finished goods. Higher rates apply to certain consumer goods considered luxuries. Imported goods are also subject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 percent of the declared value; and (3) a transportation infrastructure duty of 3 percent on the sum of the c.i.f. value, the customs duty, the municipal tax, the combined costs of transportation by air, railway, and road, and the customs clearance expense. (The du ty rate on imports transported by sea is 4 percent.) Certain goods are subject to various tax rates, the proceeds of which are transferred to extrabudgetary funds ("funds list" X1 Payments for Invisibles Residents may freely make payments for invisi- ble transactions relating to all services to nonresi- dents at home or abroad. All residents traveling abroad may carry foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of $5,000 a per- son without proof of exchange allocation by com- mercial banks, and banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to residents and nonresidents without restriction. Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Turkish citizens traveling abroad are subject to a tax equivalent to $100, payable in Turkish liras, regard- less of whether there are related purchases of for- eign exchange; the tax is reduced by one-half for travelers 18 years or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the permission of the governor of the province concerned must pay the equivalent of $25 in Turkish liras, and immigrants and refugees traveling abroad must pay the equivalent of $50 in Turkish liras. Exempt from payment of this tax are (1) all foreign nationals; (2) first-time pilgrims to Mecca; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who may leave the country by administrative per- mit; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private students being edu- cated abroad; and (8) civil servants (and their fami- lies) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency notes and Turkish lira notes and coins. Foreign currency notes in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent may be taken out of the country, provided it is documented that they have been purchased from commercial banks. On leaving Turkey, Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent, provided that they declared such amounts on arrival. 1 Effective Janua ry 1, 1993, various import taxes were consoli- dated into customs duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 527 Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports are classified into the follow- ing categories: (1) free exports (that is, exports not requiring any official permission); (2) exports subject to registration, which covers exports of goods for which payments are made from, or premiums are paid to, the Support and Price Stabilization Fund, raw materials for textiles, all kinds of textiles and garments, raw and finished leather, leather garments and other leather products, semifinished steel and iron products, natural gas under agreement with the states of the former U.S.S.R., products to which quantitative restrictions are applied, and raw vegeta- ble oils (including olive oil) and oil seeds. The Free Export Declarations related to the goods that fall into this category must be registered by the professional institutions, Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade and /or the customs administration upon the application of the exporter; (3) exports that require the permission of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade or the professional insti- tutions authorized by the Treasury. These include exports on credit, consignment and temporary exports, exports undertaken by the construction companies that are awarded construction and instal- lation work abroad, or exports intended for use in international fairs and exhibitions. All companies are allowed to conduct barter trade in accordance with established procedures. Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment. If exchange receipts are surren- dered within 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30 percent of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commer- cial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Com- mercial banks are required to sell to the Central Bank a specified percentage of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports and invisible transactions within a period agreed with the Central Bank. The ratio has been lowered in steps over the years and has been 20 percent since November 1989. A system of export incentives in the form of sub- sidized credits administered by the Turkish Exim- bank is in operation. Under the Foreign Trade Companies Rediscount Credit Program (introduced in Janua ry 1990), exporters whose annual export turnover exceeds $50 million are eligible to receive credit either in Turkish liras, with the interest rate related to the rediscount ra te of the Central Bank, or in foreign currency, with the interest rate linked to LIBOR. The Eximbank also maintains a program of preshipment credit designed to meet the financing needs of manufac turers and exporters. The credits under this program are extended for up to 120 days with fixed interest of between 25 percent and 50 percent of the f.o.b. value of the export com- mitment, depending on the maturity. In addition, the Eximbank provides buyers' credit facilities to support Turkish exports to certain countries, including Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and some of the states of the former U.S.S.R.; it provides insurance against commercial and political risks on commer- cial terms. Premiums are paid from the Support and Price Stabilization Fund for selected export products; in 1992, 110 items were eligible for these premiums. Exporters of manufactured goods exceeding $250,000 in value are eligible to deduct 8 percent of the gross value of their exports from their taxable income. Exporters holding export encouragement certificates are permitted to import inputs free of customs duties or levies for extrabudgetary funds. To benefit from this facility, exporters must under- take to achieve a certain export turnover and must present documentary proof that they have used duty-free imports in the manufac ture of exported goods. Normally, the value of duty-free imports may not exceed 40 percent of the export value. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may accept foreign currency from non- residents for transactions processed in Turkey For- eign exchange earned by residents in exchange for services they have rendered to nonresidents or on behalf of them in Turkey or abroad (including con- tracting services), as well as foreign exchange corre- sponding to expenses incurred in the name, and on behalf of, nonresidents, can be disposed of freely. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in kind or in the form of foreign exchange and must obtain a license from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. In establishing part- nerships or joint companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of capital. Certain investments are allowed under the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law. Profits and dividends and the pro- ceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the Central Bank. Resident individuals or corpora- tions may invest abroad and in the free zones in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 TURKEY Turkey up to the equivalent of $5 million in cash or in kind. The exportation of capital in amounts ranging from the equivalent of $5 million to $50 million requires the approval of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Capital transfers abroad of larger amounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers.2 Nonresidents may transfer abroad, without restriction, proceeds from sales of real estate. Purchases and sales by nonresidents of Turkish securities, including mutual funds, quoted in the stock exchange or issued with the permission of the Capital Market Board and all securities issued by public institutions through the intermedi- ary institutions operating in Turkey under the Capi- tal Market Law, including banks, may be made freely. The transfer of the income from such securi- ties and the proceeds from their sale are free through banks and special finance institutions. Pur- chases and sales by residents of foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and of treasury bills and government bonds that are denominated in approved currencies are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks and spe- cial finance institutions. Residents may also issue and sell securities in the financial markets abroad. Commercial banks may open foreign exchange accounts for residents or nonresidents. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are free to operate within the margins of certain ratios set by the Central Bank. The liquidity ratio, under which banks hold foreign exchange assets against foreign exchange liabilities, may not be less than 10 percent. The ratio of all foreign currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign exchange overdrafts and foreign exchange loans received from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement. This ratio is calculated on the basis of the U.S. dollar, the deutsche mark, or the U.S. dollar equivalent of other convertible cur- rencies. The exchange rate risk used in relation to foreign exchange position management is 75 percent (minimum) and 115 percent (maximum) for the ratios based on deutsche mark and U.S. dol- lars and 80 percent (minimum) and 110 percent (maximum) for the ratio based on the U.S. dollar equivalent in other currencies of the total amount concerned. Gold The Central Bank is authorized to import gold into Turkey and to conduct purchase and sale trans- actions with the public without restriction. In a gold market established in the Central Bank, gold con- forming to international standards is sold to the banks and authorized institutions in exchange for foreign currency. Banks and authorized institutions, in turn, sell gold to the public in exchange for Turk- ish liras. Since June 1991, the exportation and importation of gold (except for unwrought gold) have been allowed within a framework established in the export and import regimes. The importation of unwrought gold is subject to provisions specified by the Central Bank.3 The importation and exporta- tion of processed precious metals, stones, and goods for commercial purposes are not restricted. Travelers may bring into or take out of Turkey pre- cious metals or stones in their personal possession with a value up to $15,000. Exports or imports of metals or stones exceeding this value are subject to declaration. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control November 20. The authority to transfer foreign exchange abroad by authorized agencies was with- drawn. Imports and Import Payments February 20. The customs duties and import lev- ies on some f i f ty products (including certain textile products, printing ink, live cattle and meat, and cement) were increased. July 7. The customs duties and import levies on certain products (including printing ink, synthetic rubber, leather products, and color televisions) were reduced or eliminated. November 20. (1) Advance payments for all imports were permitted for all products and with- out the guarantees of the importing firms; and (2) unless specifically prohibited, all import pay- ments were allowed to be made from importers' foreign exchange deposit accounts. November 20. Importers were allowed to utilize credits obtained from export credit institutions, or 2 Since March 1, 1993, capital transfers abroad exceeding US$5 million have required authorization from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. 3 Since March 4,1991, authorized banks have also been allowed to import unwrought gold, subject to customs declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 529 under their guarantees, to effect payments to sup- pliers through banks abroad. Payments for Invisibles November 20. Residents were allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The percentage of the gross value of their earnings that exporters of manufactured goods valued at more than $250,000 would be able to deduct from their income tax base was reduced to 8 percent from 12 percent. November 20. (I) Twenty percent of export pro- ceeds were required to be sold to the commercial banks within 180 days; (2) when export proceeds are repatriated within 90 days of shipments, export- ers would be allowed to use the proceeds to make import- and export-related invisible payments. Capital April 1. The liquidity ratio of foreign currency- denominated assets to the foreign currency liabili- ties applied to banks was lowered to 16 percent from 20 percent. November 20. (1) The liquidity ratio for financial institutions with respect to foreign exchange liabili- ties was reduced to 10 percent from 20 percent; and (2) the (exchange rate risk) ratios of foreign currency- denominated assets to foreign currency liabilities that are applied to banks were reduced by 5 percent- age points in respect of each category of liabilities (in deutsche mark, U.S. dollars, and the U.S. dollar equivalent of other currencies). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Turkmenistan is the Russian Ruble. The official exchange rate, which is defined as the value of the ruble against the U.S. dollar as announced twice a week by the Central Bank of Russia on the basis of the Moscow Inter- bank Foreign Currency Exchange (MICEX), is quoted by the State Central Bank of Turkmenistan (SCBT). The official rate is used by the SCBT for purposes of official accounting and official external debt-service payments. The SCBT does not publish exchange rates of the Russian ruble for other cur- rencies. On April 1, 1993, the official (selling) ex- change rate was rub 692 per US$1. In principle, authorized commercial banks are free to quote their buying and selling rates. How- ever, the market rate for the ruble on the MICEX is used as the reference rate for such transactions. The MICEX rate is used by the SCBT only as an indica- tive rate for foreign exchange transactions among banks and among enterprises. Foreign exchange transactions among enterprises may be conducted at freely determined exchange rates only through an authorized bank. Sales of foreign currency notes are subject to a 1.5 percent tax. Administration of Control Under existing laws, only the SCBT, alone or to- gether with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Tax Authority, depending on the type of op- eration involved, is empowered to issue exchange control regulations. In practice, however, no regula- tion is issued until a consensus has been reached among these three authorities. Currently, the Minis- try of Economy and Finance is responsible for pre- paring the foreign exchange budget. Five commercial banks have been granted licenses to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, one commer- cial bank has been licensed to deal in foreign exchange domestically (only with resident customers). Autho- rized banks are allowed to buy foreign exchange from, and sell it to, the public, to open foreign cur- rency accounts for any resident natural and juridical persons, and to conduct international transfers on behalf of customers. The foreign exchange holdings in any one currency may not exceed six times the bank's l rThe Republic of Turkmenistan became a member of the IMF on September 22,1992. capital, and the holdings on aggregate may not exceed twenty times the bank's capital. Foreign exchange holdings must be reported monthly to the SCBT Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the procedures set for th in these agreements. Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Foreign Exchange Accounts Authorized banks may open foreign exchange accounts for natural and juridical persons who are licensed by the Commission on Foreign Economic Relations and are engaged in foreign economic activ- ities. Balances on these accounts may be debited to make import payments, to transfer to accounts of other natural and juridical persons, and to service external obligations. Interest is payable on balances in these accounts in the currency of the account at a rate to be determined by the bank. Imports and Exports Certain categories of imports from countries, other than the states of the former U.S.S.R., that use the ruble as their national currency are either pro- hibited or require an import license. The customs tar iff regime of the former U.S.S.R. is retained while a new regime and import taxes are being prepared. Enterprises may freely make import payments, utilizing their own retained foreign exchange re- sources or foreign exchange acquired from other enterprises. Enterprises may not sell foreign ex- change to individuals. Licenses are required to export goods specified by presidential decree to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. Most licenses are con- tract-specific and specify the quantity and the price (in foreign currency) of the goods to be exported. Juridical persons with foreign participation enjoy customs privileges and are exempt from license requirements as to both exports and imports of goods and services. The use of export proceeds obtained by juridical persons with foreign partici- pation is unrestricted. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated through authorized banks. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 531 According to Presidential Decree on Tax on For- eign Exchange of December 31, 1992, foreign ex- change proceeds from exports of certain goods and services are subject to taxes that are payable in the currency in which export proceeds are received. Tax payments must be made within five working days of the date on which export proceeds are received. The tax rates vary according to the degree of pro- cessing of the export goods and range from 80 percent for the gas company to 10-30 percent for others. The revenue from this tax is used to support the Government's foreign currency fund and the foreign exchange budgets of local governments. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must possess valid passports to pur- chase foreign exchange for travel abroad. The maxi- mum amount of foreign exchange a person can purchase from the commercial banks without approval from the SCBT is $500; additional amounts may be granted on proof of need. All other payments for invisibles require approval from the SCBT. Pro- ceeds from invisibles are not regulated. Capital Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to the approval of the SCBT A law permit- ting, in principle, foreign direct investments by ju- ridical persons in all sectors has been enacted. Investors are required to obtain a license (state reg- istration) from the Cabinet of the Ministers of Turk- menistan, the SCBT, or other authorized bodies depending on the area of investment. Foreign in- vestments are protected from nationalization. The law provides that, at the request of investors, the law in force at the time of registration should pre- vail over any subsequent amendment to the law. Foreign investors are allowed to repatriate proceeds from the liquidation of capital without restriction. Profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held at bank accounts in national or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Gold A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. There are no regulations governing domestic trade in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. The exchange rate system consists of three rates: the foreign exchange bureau rate, the official rate, and the auction rate. The exchange rate in the foreign exchange bureau market is determined by supply and demand conditions. The official exchange rate is determined as the average of the foreign exchange bureau exchange rate and is applied to proceeds for coffee exports, some government imports, and debt- service payments. On December 31,1992, the official buying and selling rates were USh 1,197.7 and U Sh 1,241.5, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 1.6 percent buying and 2.0 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all convertible currencies at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates. Authorized foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell specified foreign curren- cies at market-determined rates.1 All other transac- tions, with the exception of imports financed with external aid funds, take place at the bureau rate. External aid funds for imports are sold through a weekly auction (Dutch type). Authorized banks may deal forward with cus- tomers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and certain other convertible currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may impose a service charge of not more than 1.0 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control regulations are administered by the Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Ministry of Commerce, which has powers to pro- hibit imports and exports. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda settles accounts in U.S. dol- lars with the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area (PTA) for Eastern and Southern African States through the PTA clearinghouse. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries, other than Israel and South Africa, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an external account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Uganda maintains bilateral trade and pay- ments agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Uganda maintains bilateral clearing arrangements with Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Zaire; the agreements with Rwanda, Tanzania, and Zaire are inoperative. External Accounts Accounts in foreign exchange held by persons with diplomatic status are designated external accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Uganda and with trans- fers from other external accounts or any other exter- nal source. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan residents, who are exporters of items other than coffee and who are earning com- missions, consulting fees, rent, and other incomes in foreign exchange, may operate foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Pay- ments made from these accounts are subject to the same restrictions as those governing sales of foreign exchange in the foreign exchange bureaus. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 533 Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports are controlled through the import-licensing system. Foreign exchange alloca- tions to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing the approval of the Central Tender Board. Importers are provided with a renewable certificate, which is valid for six months and which permits them to import a broad range of goods not on the negative list. The certificate does not prescribe the importation of a specific good. The negative list consists of the fol- lowing items: (1) firearms, (2) communications equip- ment (according to the Uganda Post Office and Telecommunications Act of 1983), (3) specialized elec- trical equipment, (4) pornographic materials, (5) beer, (6) soda, (7) cigarettes, and (8) motor vehicle batteries. All imports valued at more than $2,500 (f.o.b.) or $10,000 (c.i.f.) financed through foreign exchange bureaus or under the weekly auction system are required to be verified by an international agency with respect to the price, quantity, and quality. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except for debt-ser- vice payments, are financed through foreign exchange bureaus. Payments to. South Africa are prohibited. With the permission of the Director of Exchange Control of the Bank of Uganda, residents of Uganda may transfer abroad dividends and profit, fees, and savings. The following limits apply to foreign exchange that may be purchased in the foreign exchange bureaus without referring to the Bank of Uganda: (1) travel, $3,000 a trip; (2) medical treatment, $20,000 a person to be transferred through a bank with supporting documents; and (3) education, $15,000 a person a year. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports require certificates from the Ministry of Commerce, which are valid for six months and are renewable, and may be restricted to ensure suffi- cient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Export- ers may retain proceeds from exports other than coffee and sell them in the foreign exchange bureaus. One hundred percent of coffee export receipts are required to be surrendered to the Bank of Uganda at the official exchange rate. Coffee is subject to an export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be sold in the for- eign exchange bureaus. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency bank notes and traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval, and those to South Africa are prohibited. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguar- anteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals. Foreign investment in Uganda is permitted with or without government participa- tion. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is nec- essary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Investment Code of 1991. In normal circumstances, approved status is given freely. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remit ta- ble, as are the proceeds on resale in most cases. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to nonresidents or to corporate bodies resident in Uganda that are controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resi- dent outside Uganda. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jew- elry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Mines. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement March 2. The official exchange rate would be set as an average of the foreign exchange bureau rate, and it would be used by the Bank of Uganda for its own exchange transactions and for transactions with the private sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE1 (Position as of March 31,1993) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Ukraine is the Ukrainian Karbovanets. The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) sets the exchange rate of the karbo- vanets against the U.S. dollar as fixed at the Thurs- day auction as the official rate, which is maintained until the next auction.2 The official rates for all other convertible currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A set of exchange rates is established each Friday and is maintained for the following week. On March 31, 1993, the exchange rate of the karbovanets against the U.S. dollar was krb 2,180 per US$1. On March 31, 1993, the exchange rate for the Russian ruble was krb 2.8 per rub I.3 At a weekly foreign exchange fixing session con- ducted by the NBU, the exchange rate of the kar- bovanets against the U.S. dollar is determined by competitive bidding among representatives of commercial banks. Cross rates for other currencies officially traded in Ukraine are determined on the basis of international market rates. Commercial banks licensed to deal in foreign exchange are obliged to conduct authorized transactions with customers within margins of ±2.5 percent of these rates. The commercial banks' exchange rates for the Russian ruble are determined by the off ic ial exchange rate of the NBU for the ruble within margins of ±2.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the NBU. Commercial banks must be licensed by the NBU to engage in foreign exchange transactions. At the end of 1992, 35 commercial banks were licensed to engage in international transactions and to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. l rThe Republic of Uk ra ine became a member of the IMF on September 3,1992. The first auction of foreign exchange (deutsche ma rk) was held in April 1993. 3 The f irst auc t ion of Russ ian rubles was held dur ing the week of April 19-23,1993. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Payments to and receipts from countries with which Ukraine has bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.4 Trade with all other countries is settled in convertible currencies. Nonbarter trade with the states of the former U.S.S.R. is settled in the currencies of these states as stipulated in the agreements, with the exception of trade through commodity exchanges, which is transacted in convertible currencies. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Residents and nonresidents may open and oper- ate foreign currency deposits under certain condi- tions. The opening and operation of accounts in domestic currency by nonresidents are restricted. Imports and Exports Licenses are required to engage in all foreign trade activities, and they are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Before 1993, the cus- toms tariff regime of the former U.S.S.R. was in effect. With effect from January 1, 1993, a new cus- toms tar iff regime has been established under Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on a Unified Customs Tariff of Ukraine. The customs tar iff regime contains three categories of du ty rates. The first category (preferential du ty rates) applies to goods entering from countries that belong, with Ukraine, to customs unions, those imported from developing countries (agricultural and industrial goods), and those imported under intergovernmen- tal preferential agreements. The rate of du ty for these goods, except for tobacco and alcohol prod- ucts, is zero. The second category (concessional du ty rates) applies to goods imported from coun- tries that have entered into a most-favored-nation arrangement with Ukraine and to goods imported 4At the end of 1992, Uk ra ine ma in ta ined b i la te ral t rade and paymen ts agreements w i th Bu lga r ia, Hunga ry, Ind ia, the Is lam ic Republic of Iran, and Mongolia. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 535 from developing countries that are not covered under the first category. The average rate in this cat- egory is 6 percent. The third category applies to goods imported from all other countries; the aver- age rate in this category is 12 percent. Since the beginning of 1993, a regime of quotas and licensing has been applied to the exportation of about 290 product items; the list was significantly reduced when the Decree of the Cabinet of Minis- ters on Liberalization of Foreign Economic Activity took effect. Firms may exceed their quotas if they obtain a license on the Ukrainian Stock Exchange by paying an export duty in the national currency equivalent to 5-30 percent of the price of the goods exported. Strategic raw materials falling under the special export regime (e.g., coal, petroleum and petroleum-derived gas, nonferrous metals, rare and precious metals, and precious stones) may be exported only by firms that have been authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. The exportation of goods and services produced by enterprises with foreign investments is exempt from quota restrictions and licensing requirements as well as from export duties unless otherwise spe- cifically stipulated in domestic legislation or by international agreements. Firms must repatriate all of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports to domestic bank accounts and surrender to the interbank currency market within five days of repatriation one-half of the proceeds less the amount needed to service external obligations or remit profits. Individuals who provide services to nonresidents are not required to hold foreign exchange earnings in for- eign currency accounts or sell them in the interbank currency market. The export du ty regime was introduced in Janu- ary 1993 by Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on (Expor t) Duty. The rates of export du ty on products subject to licensing (mostly raw mate- rials) are 10 percent, 20 percent, and 30 percent. Goods exported by special permission of the Cabi- net of Ministers of Ukraine (e.g., nonferrous, rare, and precious metals; coal; petroleum products; and a number of other goods) are exempt from the export duty. The du ty rate on other goods is 5 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Residents may freely purchase foreign exchange up to $200 a year for any purpose. In addition, resi- dents may freely obtain up to $200 a day for 25 days of business travel, and, with permission from the NBU, an additional $5,000. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign investors may, af ter paying taxes and fees, transfer abroad without restriction dividends, prof- its, and other foreign currency assets obtained legally in connection with their investments. Capital The contracting of external loans with maturities exceeding 90 days must be approved by the NBU. The NBU does not provide any loan guarantees. Foreign investments in Ukraine are governed by the Law on Foreign Economic Activity of April 16, 1991, the Law on Foreign Investment of March 3, 1992, and the Law on Income Tax for Companies and Organizations of February 21, 1992. Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permit- ted, although licenses are required in some cases. A license from the Ministry of Finance is required for investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities. A license from the NBU is required for investments in the banking sector. Tax relief is granted to enterprises established with foreign capital investments. The nature of the relief depends on the activity of the enterprise or organiza- tion, its turnover, and the proportion of foreign equity capital ownership. The basic profit tax rate is 18 percent, although special tax rates apply in certain sectors. For joint ventures whose foreign equity capi- tal ownership is less than 20 percent, the basic tax rate is also 18 percent. Firms other than those engaged in the trading and intermediating activities are exempt from the profit tax for five years from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 50 percent from the rates applicable to domestic enterprises. Trading firms are exempt from the profit tax for the first three years, and intermediating firms for the first two years, respectively, from the first year in which profit is recorded; thereafter, the profit tax rate is reduced by 30 percent from the applicable tax rate. In cases where the foreign equity capital ownership is 100 percent, taxable profits may be reduced by the amount of capital actually invested in Ukraine; addi- tional relief may be granted for investments in prior- ity sectors or in special economic zones. Gold The NBU grants permission to commercial banks to export and import gold and other monetary met- als. Other residents are required to obtain a license from the Ministry of Finance to deal in precious metals and stones. Permission to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Cabi- net of Ministers of Ukraine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 per SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the official rate; since November 1980, the U.A.E. dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. The Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31,1992, the offi- cial buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6990 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any com- mercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions, including for- ward contracts related to commercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. The Central Bank maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of $20 million out- standing for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 million outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of $3 million a day on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not avail- able to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13,1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. l rThe seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Shar jah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Kh a im ah, and Fu ja i rah. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts Distinction is drawn between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Nonresi- dent accounts consist of those held with commer- cial banks on behalf of U.A.E. citizens working abroad; all foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates but who do not have residency; all embas- sies and diplomatic agencies in the country; all trade and financial companies, banks, and indus- trial companies incorporated outside the U.A.E. that have no local branches; and branches of local institutions in foreign countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are prohib- ited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons, but virtu- ally all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit. However, only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and importers may import only the commodities specified in their license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of permitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs du ty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an export license to any other destination. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be repa- triated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 537 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations (as specified in Article 90 of the Central Bank Act of 1980) and from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Under the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8 of 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to hold (1) up to 75 percent of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisher- ies, and construction sectors, and in the consultancy areas (Law No. 2 of 1984); and (2) up to 100 percent of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. Furthermore, nationals of the member countries of the GCC are permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of compa- nies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law of 1984. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Cen- tral Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with, or lending to, nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but only licensed parties may import gold for trade purposes. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty, but jewelry is not. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The U.K. authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply condi- tions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion with a view to moderating undue fluctuations in the exchange rate.1 On December 31, 1992, the closing buying and selling rates for the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.5145 and US$1.5155, respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free mar- ket exchange rates. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United Kingdom notified the IMF on July 26, 1992 that, in compliance with United Na- tions Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. l rThe United Kingdom suspended intervention obligations with respect to the exchange ra te and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary Sysem (EMS) on September 16, 1992. (I ta ly withdrew from the EMS on September 17,1992.) Payments for imports may be made freely. For import-licensing purposes, countries are divided into ten groups: the African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) Area; the Central European Free Trade (CEFTA) Area;3 the Community Area;4 the Dollar Area;5 the Far Eastern and Western Area;6 the Med- iterranean Area;7 the Overseas Countries andTerri- tories (OCT) Area;8 the State Trading Area;9 the Residual Textile Area;10 and all other countries. 2The ACP Area comprises Angola, Anguilla, Antigua and Bar- buda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Dominica, Equa- torial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauri- tius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 3 The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechten- stein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 4 The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 5 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guate- mala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, N icaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 6 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Can- ada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 7 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey. 8 The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Ind ian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, the Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polyne- sia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, May- otte, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eustatius, St. Maar ten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States. 9The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Cambo- dia, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the states of the former U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 10 The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territo- ries other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, N icaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, U ruguay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 538 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 539 Most imports are admitted under an open gen- eral import license without restriction, with the exception of certain textile goods,11 and the follow- ing exceptions at the end of 1990: (1) from all coun- tries, two commodities or groups of commodities;12 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of com- modities; (3) from the states of the former U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (4) from the State Trad- ing Area only, eight commodities or groups of com- modities; and (5) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required for goods that cannot be imported under the authority of the open gen- eral import license; some items are subject to sur- veillance licensing, under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilat- eral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quantity or value. Imports of automobiles from Japan are subject to voluntary export restraints of the respective supplying com- panies. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horti- cultural, and livestock products are subject to European Community (EC) regulations. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export pro- ceeds.13 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credits Guarantee Department, export- ers bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars, when the U.K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £10 million, may obtain cover against exchange 11 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 12 The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported w i thout an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported according to the International Cocoa Agreement of 1986. 13 Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, an imal welfare, or national heritage and in accordance with international agreements. rate fluctuations between the submission of their bid and the awarding of the contract. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may import or export any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes or any other means of payment. Capital There are no restrictions or exchange control requirements on capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Residents and nonresidents may freely transfer assets to and from the United Kingdom. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made by nonresidents in the United King- dom or by residents abroad. However, investments involving the takeover of existing U.K. companies that are considered a vital part of U.K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manu- facturing undertakings. There are no restrictions or formalities on trans- actions in sterling or foreign currency securities. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency busi- ness or convert them to sterling, subject to pruden- tial guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabili- ties in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) fo rm part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35 percent non-interest-bearing de- posit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed w i th the Bank. There is currently no spe- cial deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or a f ter 1961 and originat- ing in South Afr ica. Gold sovereigns and Britan- nias, a new gold coin introduced in October 1987, are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 UNITED KINGDOM time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time a f ter May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The exportation of gold in manufac tured form over f i f ty years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement September 16. The United Kingdom suspended intervention obligations with respect to the exchange and intervention mechanism of the EMS. (See Appendix for a summary of trade measures introduced and eliminated on an EC-wide basis during 1992, page 579.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities inter- vene when necessary to counter disorderly condi- tions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsi- dies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10,1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers eco- nomic sanction programs involving direct or indi- rect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam as well as Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro), as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations, the Haitian Transactions Regulations, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) Sanctions Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries, Cambodian accounts blocked as of Janu- ary 2, 1992, Government of Panama accounts blocked as of December 20, 1989, and residual blocked accounts of the Baltic states' Governments under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations. The Department of the Treasury regulates the importa- tion into the United States of goods or services orig- inating from the Islamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transactions Regulations. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agen- cies. The Committee for the Implementation of Tex- tile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce and represented by other agencies, decides when to request consultation with exporting countries to limit imports on the basis of the guide- lines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilat- eral restraint agreements. Import quotas on certain dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items—the Department of Com- merce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations on transactions involving the govern- ments or nationals of Cuba, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Viet Nam; and the governments of Haiti, Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), as well as those on imports from, and certain assets of, the Islamic Republic of Iran. Transfers of funds are also prohibited to persons in Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), pursuant to domestic implementation of UN Secu- rity Council resolutions, or to or through Libyan financial institutions. Certain payments to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam related to authorized travel are permit- ted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited remittances to the remit- ter's close relatives in Cuba and Viet Nam are also permitted. In accordance with the Fund's Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted on August 14, 1952, the United States notified the Fund on June 26, 1992 that, in compliance with United Nations Secu- rity Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain re- strictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yu- goslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Imports and Import Payments The importation of goods and services originat- ing in or representing a property interest of Cuba, Haiti, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited, unless specifically authorized. Import quotas are in effect for certain agricultural products, including cotton, certain cotton waste and products, many dairy products, peanuts, and certain products containing sugar. Under Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1983, as 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 542 UNITED STATES amended, quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set for th in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, certain but- ter substitutes, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country- of-origin basis. Most dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains bilateral textile agreements with 31 countries nego- tiated in accordance with the MFA's provisions, and 7 agreements with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States in spe- cific product categories and provide for orderly expansion of trade while minimizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and nonagreement countries are monitored along with domestic industry perfor- mance to determine whether market disruption exists or is threatened. When necessary, consulta- tions with exporting countries are requested to establish limitations. Imports of a limited number of manufactured products (i.e., machine tools) are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multi- lateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries. Free trade area agreements are in force with Israel and Canada. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), which provided for duty-free treatment for approxi- mately 4,400 items from 142 beneficiary developing countries, was in operation from January 1976 through July 4, 1993, when it expired.1 Under the expired program, a procedure referred to as "prod- uct graduation" allowed eligibility for duty-free treatment to be withdrawn for a particular product in which a beneficiary country became competitive as defined by statute. However, the President has the authority to waive such treatment. Cumulative treat- ment under the GSP scheme was extended to benefi- ciary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM); cumulation allowed two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product originate in the benefi- 1 Congress is reviewing a bill to extend the GSP for 15 months and remove the states of the former U.S.S.R. from the list of countries banned from receiving GSP benefits. ciary country. Exempt from competitive needs limits is a category of countries designated as "least devel- oped" beneficiaries; currently, 37 countries are thus designated.2 Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 24 countries and entities3 were desig- nated to receive preferential tariff treatment on speci- fied imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Com- merce administers controls directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on instruments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the North Atlan- tic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. With the exception of publications and other information materials, personal baggage, and simi- lar items, all exports from the United States to Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are prohibited unless licensed by the Department of Commerce and /or the Department of the Treasury The Treasury Department adminis- ters controls on exports to Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam of goods of foreign origin by U.S. nationals or by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nation- als, and on such exports by U.S. nationals to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Export controls on certain military equipment to South Africa remain in effect along with a munitions embargo. Exports to all other countries, except Canada, of designated strategic materials and equipment require validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. 2 Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mozam- bique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 3 Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Bel- ize, British Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Gua tema la, Guyana, Haiti, Hon- duras, Jama ica, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, N ica ragua, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Luc ia, St. Vincent and the Grena- dines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 543 Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in offshore transactions in strategic goods involving certain countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- nating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). This program is administered pursuant to the Transaction Control Regulations. For many commodities for export to countries other than Afghanistan, former member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), distribu- tion licenses may be obtained from the Commerce Department to cover multiple shipments. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, amended in 1985, the President can suspend the exportation of nonagricultural goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspen- sion of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless a national emergency is declared. For agricultural commodities such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soy- bean products, and cotton, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system designed to improve market information and allow for more orderly exporting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the governments or nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam, or to or for the accounts of the govern- ments of Haiti, Iraq, the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro), and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and certain payments relating to the Islamic Republic of Iran.4 Transfers of funds to persons in Iraq and in the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) or to or through Libyan financial institutions are prohibited. Effec- tive December 19,1991, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya was prohibited from clearing funds involving third 4 Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving obligations contracted before J anu a ry 19, 1981 are subject to restrictions, as are payments for goods or services imported from the Islamic Republic of Iran. countries through U.S. banks. Residents of the United States are allowed to remit up to $300 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba or Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to $500 to Cuba and $750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia and Montenegro) are subject to block- ing, as are payments involving a governmental interest from Haiti, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahir- iya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domes- tic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transac- tions with, or involving, Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained a provi- sion authorizing the President to suspend or pro- hibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States (the "Exon-Florio Amendment") if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, except the Interna- tional Economic Emergency Preparedness Act and the Exon-Florio provision itself, are not, in the Pres- ident's judgment, adequate or appropriate to pro- tect the national security. In 1991, the Exon-Florio provision was made permanent. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with cer- tain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. Govern- ment. The act does not apply to those foreign gov- ernments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there is no restriction on the amount of cash or negotiable instruments that may be brought into or taken out of the United States; however, there are certain reporting requirements for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 UNITED STATES travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than $10,000 in cash or nego- tiable instruments (as well as corresponding report- ing requirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial control must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose varying restrictions on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential oversight. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, may be subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. Beginning December 3, 1981, U.S. chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,5 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have been allowed to es- tablish international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domes- tic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution es- tablishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements under Regulation D. For non- bank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or no- tice requirement is two business days, and the minimum transaction amount is $100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domes- tic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance op- erations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establish- ing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocur- rency reserve requirements (currently set at zero) in the same manner as advances to the establishing en- tity from the entity's foreign branches. A number of individual states (but not the federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legis- lation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Effective December 31, 1988, U.S. banks have been permitted to accept for- eign currency deposits. 5 These are defined as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in in terna t ional banking and f inanc ial operations. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Haiti, Iraq, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Viet Nam, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for import- ers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Gold producers may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely imported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restrictions but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coins. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1992 Administration of Control During 1992, the United States concluded trade agreements with a number of countries, and a num- ber of agreements expired. The most significant were the following: March 31. Voluntary restraint agreements with 27 countries on steel expired. April 3. The United States and Romania signed a trade agreement providing for MFN tariff treatment on bilateral trade relations. This agreement remains to be ratified by the U.S. Congress. May 14. The United States and Albania signed a trade agreement providing for a nondiscriminatory framework for bilateral trade relations. July 6. The United States and Lithuania signed a Bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agree- ment, which committed both countries to the prin- ciples of free trade, open investment, and protection of intellectual property. July 17. The United States and the EC concluded an agreement on the manufacture of commercial aircraft, under which stricter disciplines on govern- ment assistance would be exercised (1) to prohibit fu ture production subsidies, (2) to limit the share of government support for the development of new a ircraft and place strict requirements on its repay- ment, and (3) to require that all government sup- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 545 port to commercial manufacturers be made transparent. August 12. Negotiations were concluded among the United States, Canada, and Mexico on the estab- lishment of a North American Free Trade Agree- ment aimed at eliminating trade barriers in goods and services. Among the issues negotiated were market access, dispute settlement, services, invest- ment, and intellectual property rights. September 23. The United States and Armenia signed a bilateral investment treaty. September 23. The United States and Bulgaria signed a bilateral investment treaty. (This agree- ment remains to be approved by the U.S. Senate.) October 2. The United States Trade Representative (USTR) and representatives of the Government of New Zealand concluded negotiations on a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement. December 21. The United States and Australia signed a bilateral Trade and Investment Framework Agreement. Imports and Import Payments February 5. The Generalized System of Prefer- ences (GSP) was extended to Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. March 12. The GSP eligibility on vulcanized rub- ber thread and cord from Malaysia was withdrawn. March 20. Antidumping duties ranging from 2.72 percent to 42.3 percent were imposed on imports of cotton shop towels from Bangladesh. April 15. Antidumping duties at the rate of 158 percent were imposed on imports of hand-held aspheric ophthalmoscopy lenses from Japan. May 1. The duty rates were reduced on imports of certain handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and leather wearing apparel from the beneficiaries of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act. The duties were announced for certain goods originat- ing in Canada and Israel. May 13. The GSP eligibility for chemicals, phar- maceuticals, and other items valued at approxi- mately $60 million from India was withdrawn. June 2. Antidumping duties at the rate of 98.6 percent were imposed on imports of fresh kiwi fruit from New Zealand. June 5. An Executive Order was issued prohibit- ing, from May 30, 1992, the importation of any goods originating in, or services performed in, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Mon- tenegro) or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such importation. June 15. GSP was extended to $75 million in new items as a result of a special GSP review for Central and Eastern Europe. In addition, GSP was extended to $402 million in new items as a result of the 1991 GSP Annual Review. June 30. Antidumping duties at the rate of 24.58 percent were imposed on imports of high- tenacity rayon filament yarn from Germany. July 1. The GSP benefits to the Syrian Arab Republic were suspended indefinitely. July 1. The GSP benefits were extended to 83 items of special interest to Bulgaria, the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, and Poland. July 1. The GSP benefits were extended to 22 items, including oriental tobacco and ferrochromium. The GSP eligibility for steel leaf springs for certain motor vehicles from all countries was withdrawn. July 2. Bolivia and Colombia were made eligible for Andean trade preferences. July 6. Antidumping duties ranging from 0.22 per- cent to 89.1 percent were imposed on imports of car- bon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Thailand. July 6. Antidumping duties ranging from 41.77 per- cent to 182 percent were imposed on imports of car- bon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from China. July 13. Countervailing duties at the rate of 6.58 percent were imposed on imports of softwood lumber products from Canada. July 24. A duty of 50 percent was levied on imports of beer brewed or bottled in the Province of Ontario, Canada, in response to Ontario's refusal to remedy practices considered illegal under the GATT. August 19. Antidumping duties ranging from 19.14 percent to 85.1 percent were imposed on im- ports of sulfanilic acid from China. August 25. Countervailing duties at the rate of 9.63 percent were imposed on imports of extruded rubber thread from Malaysia. August 27. Country allocations of quotas for sugar imports to be subject to reduced or duty-free importation from October 1, 1992 through Septem- ber 30,1993 were announced. August 31. Countervailing duties at the rate of 21.61 percent were imposed on imports of pure magnesium from Canada. August 31. Antidumping duties ranging from zero to 31.33 percent were imposed on imports of pure and alloy magnesium from Canada. September 17. Countervailing duties at the rate of 0.78 percent were imposed on imports of circular, welded nonalloy steel pipe from Venezuela. October 7. Antidumping duties ranging from 10.68 percent to 20 percent were imposed on im- ports of extruded rubber thread from Malaysia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 UNITED STATES November 2. Antidumping duties at the rate of 52.51 percent were imposed on imports of circular, welded nonalloy steel pipe from Venezuela. November 2. Antidumping duties at the rate of 32.62 percent were imposed on imports of circular, welded nonalloy steel pipe from Mexico. November 2. Antidumping duties ranging from 4.91 percent to 11.6 percent were imposed on im- ports of circular, welded nonalloy steel pipe from the Republic of Korea. November 2. Antidumping duties ranging from 19.46 percent to 27.6 percent were imposed on im- ports of circular, welded nonalloy steel pipe from Taiwan Province of China. November 2. Antidumping duties at the ra te of 103.38 percent were imposed on imports of circu- lar, welded nonalloy steel pipe from Brazil. November 23. The duty-free treatment under the GSP of polypropylene from Mexico was with- drawn. December 30. Antidumping duties ranging from 2.55 percent to 7.75 percent were imposed on im- ports of welded ASTM A-312 stainless steel pipe from South Korea. December 30. Antidumping duties ranging from zero to 31.9 percent were imposed on imports of welded ASTM A-312 stainless steel pipe from Tai- wan Province of China. Exports and Export Proceeds January 22. The United States and Japan signed an agreement committing the Japanese Govern- ment to undertake measures to expand public sec- tor procurement of competitive foreign computer products and services. April 5. The United States and Japan signed an accord on access to Japan's market for paper and paper products; the Japanese Government would encourage Japanese purchasers and distributors to increase imports of competitive foreign paper products. June 5. The United States and Taiwan Province of China reached an agreement providing for improved levels of protection for patents, copy- rights, trade secrets, layout designs of integrated secrets, and industrial designs. The USTR would monitor compliance with this trade agreement. June 5. An Executive Order was issued prohibit- ing exportation to the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via (Serbia and'Montenegro) or any entity owned, controlled, or operated by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia directly or indirectly of any goods, tech- nology, or services either from the United States, requiring a license by a federal agency, or involving the use of U.S.-registered vessels or a ircraft or any activity that promotes or is intended to promote such exportation. The order also prohibited the commitment or transfer of funds or other financial resources to or for the benefit of any person or entity in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Until November 2, 1992, the Central Bank of Uruguay conducted exchange transactions only at the higher and lower limits of the margin of 4 percent and allowed the market rates to float freely within these limits. Since that date, the mar- gin has been widened to 7 percent, and the Central Bank now periodically announces its intervention buying and selling rates. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling interbank rates for the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, were Nur$ 3,448.00 and Nur$ 3,482.00, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on the cross-rate rela- tionship between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. A tax of 0.05 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for interbank transactions settled in Uru- guayan new pesos; the tax is 2.0 percent for sales of foreign exchange if a transaction involves any insti- tution or agent outside the financial system. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the (state-owned) Bank of the Republic, and the Mortgage Bank, private commercial banks, and financial and exchange houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2,1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the mar- ket, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must also be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other coun- tries. There is a similar arrangement with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration. The registra- tions are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico (IMADUNI)). Tariff rates, which vary between zero and 16 percent, are calcu- lated on the assessed price or on the actual c.i.f. price, whichever is higher. Officially assessed prices are based on reference import prices (precios de referenda) or minimum "export prices" of goods imported into the country (precios minimos de exportacidn). There are 90 reference import prices, 72 of which are applied to textile products, and the remainder, to glass and tubes. Thirty-four items, mostly tires, sugar, wheat, and paper, are subject to minimum export prices. Sliding import surcharges (recargos moviles) are based on the difference between the minimum export price and the declared c.i.f. import price. There are exemp- tions to IMADUNI. Most imports are also subject to import sur- charges, with rates ranging from 10 percent to 30 percent and payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agricul- tural inputs, imports by the public sector, imports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for cer- tain priority industries, and imports under the tem- porary admission scheme. The combined tariff rate (tasa global arancelaria (TGA)), which includes surcharges and customs tar- iffs, has three rate categories: 10 percent, 17 percent, and 24 percent.1 Twelve products, basically wheat and precious metals, are exempt from tariff duties. In Effective Janua ry 1, 1993, the rates of 17 percent and 24 percent are scheduled to be reduced to 15 percent and 20 percent, respectively, and the 10 percent tariff on raw materi- als is scheduled to be reduced to 6 percent. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 URUGUAY addition, the exemption of machinery and equip- ment to be used in agriculture was extended for one year until December 31,1993. The domestic content and compensatory exempt requirements for the automobile assembly industry were eliminated (in July 1992), but assembly plants are allowed to import finished automobiles at a pref- erential tariff if they export automobiles that are assembled with parts that are produced for a similar value in Uruguay. The Treaty of Asuncion, signed in 1991 and aiming at establishing the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR) among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay by January 1995, implemented, on June 30, 1991, a 47 percent reduction in tariffs on goods traded among MERCOSUR countries. Thereaf- ter, tariffs have been reduced by 7 percent every six months and are to be eliminated by the end of 1994. By the end of 1992, Uruguay's tariffs on imports from the member countries of MERCOSUR had been lowered by 61 percent, and Uruguay's list of items excluded from MERCOSUR had been reduced to items covered under LAIA. These exclusions are expected to be eliminated by the end of 1995. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invisibles or on the exportation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds From time to time, and for special reasons (for example, stock position, protection, or sanitary con- siderations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special conditions. Some traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semi- scoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and livestock on the hoof (except pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the importation of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. (In practice, this exception is not enforced.) The amortization or liquidation pro- ceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for indus- trial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement November 2. The margin within which the exchange rate would be allowed to float was wid- ened to 7 percent, and the Central Bank would announce periodically its intervention buying and selling rates within this margin instead of the higher and lower limits of the margin. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The tariff rates of 30 percent and 20 per- cent were reduced to 24 percent and 17 percent, respectively. July 7. The domestic content and compensatory export requirements for the automobile assembly industry were eliminated. November-December. The number of reference import prices was reduced to 90, and the number of minimum export prices (applicable to goods imported into the country) was reduced to 34. December 31. The exemption from tariffs of machin- ery and equipment used in the agricultural sector was extended for one year until December 31,1993. Exports and Export Proceeds September 30. The ban on the exportation of live- stock was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN1 (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement Resident and Nonresident Accounts The currency of the Republic of Uzbekistan is the Russian Ruble. Exchange rates for the major curren- cies are quoted by the Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) twice a week on the basis of the exchange rate of the Russian ruble in terms of the U.S. dollar in the Moscow Interbank Foreign Currency Exchange and the cross rates between the U.S. dol- lar and the currencies concerned in the interna- tional market. On December 31, 1992, the exchange rate of the Russian ruble in terms of the U.S. dollar was rub 414.5 per US$1. Foreign exchange transac- tions are conducted by four authorized commercial banks, including the National Bank for Foreign Eco- nomic Activities and the Republican Foreign Cur- rency Exchange (RFCE). There is no regulation requiring these foreign exchange dealers to observe margins between the buying and selling rates. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The authority to control foreign exchange trans- actions is vested with the Ministry of Finance and exercised by the CBU. The National Bank is exempt from the CBU's control and has special status in for- eign exchange operations because it is responsible for managing the Government's external borrowing and debt operations, including gold transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made through the system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with those countries with which Uzbekistan maintains bilateral payments agreements are effected in accordance with the terms of the agreements.2 Transactions with other countries are settled in convertible currencies. l rThe Republic of Uzbekistan became a member of the IMF on September 21,1992. 2At the end of 1992, Uzbekistan maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with China, India, and Indonesia. At the end of 1992, Uzbekistan also maintained bilateral trade agreements with China, Finland, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, the Repub- lic of Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, and Turkey; these agreements provided for settlements in convertible currencies. Both resident and nonresident natural and juridi- cal persons may open and operate convertible cur- rency accounts without restriction. Imports and Exports The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Ministry of Agriculture issue licenses authorizing enterprises to conduct trade in goods that are not on a negative list.3 Foreign exchange at the com- mercial rate is provided to designated industries and enterprises on a case-by-case basis from the Republican Currency Fund, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance under the direction of the Council of Ministers. Imports from the states of the former U.S.S.R. are made on the basis of con- tracts concluded between buyers and sellers. Fol- lowing the signing of such a contract, the seller obtains the required license from the License and Quota Department of the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations. Quotas on goods licensed in com- pliance with intergovernmental agreements and contracts are approved by the Government. Imports are subject to customs duties as follows: liquors and alcoholic beverages, 25 percent to 40 percent; automobiles, 10 percent to 20 percent; fabrics, 10 percent to 12 percent; carpets, 15 percent to 25 percent; and electronic lamps, 5 percent to 10 percent. Customs duties of 1 percent to 3 percent must be paid on products that are not included on the tariff list. Noncommercial imports of consumer goods by returning Uzbek travelers in excess of one item per person are subject to an import du ty of up to 70 percent of the invoice price. Licenses are required for exports to countries other than the states of the former U.S.S.R. of goods considered to be of strategic importance to the country's economy, including gold, cotton, miner- als, fertilizers, and silk. Proceeds from exports by state enterprises under the State Order (Export Plan) are subject to surren- der at various ratios at the exchange rate quoted by the CBU. At the end of 1992, the average surrender ratio was 60 percent. Fifteen percent of export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the local govern- ments, 15 percent to the central Government, and 3 The negative list includes weapons, drugs, poisons, nuclear materials, and certain printed materials. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 UZBEKISTAN 30 percent to the Emergency Fund administered by the Council of Ministers. The surrendered proceeds from exports that exceed the State Order are distrib- uted as follows: 10 percent to the Emergency Fund, 10 percent to the local Council of People's Deputies, and the remainder to the central Government. Export taxes are levied on the products on the tar- iff list. The tax on vegetable oil is 30 percent; on scrap and by-products of nonferrous metals, 40 percent. Products not included on the list are taxed at the rate of 1 percent of the contract value. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments for invisibles, including transportation, is made available auto- matically once the underlying merchandise transac- tions have been approved. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel for employees of state- owned enterprises is limited to up to $155 a day, depending on the destination. Employees of private companies are exempt from this limit. The foreign exchange allowance for private travel ($200 a trip) is granted to holders of valid visas. Travelers are not required to surrender remaining foreign exchange after returning to Uzbekistan and are free to deposit it in convertible currency accounts at authorized banks. Foreign exchange for study abroad is provided on a case-by-case basis. Resi- dents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country unlimited amounts of domestic currency. Minimum spending or conversion requirements for nonresident travelers do not exist. Nonresidents must pay for transportation and hotel services in convertible currencies. Capital Foreign investments in the form of joint ventures with enterprises may be undertaken with approval from the Cabinet of Ministers. Foreign equity capi- tal participation of up to 100 percent may be al- lowed. Joint ventures are exempt from the profit tax during the first two years after registration and are allowed to export their products and import inputs without licenses and to retain foreign exchange earnings. Remittance of the foreign investors' share of profits is guaranteed, and the repatriation of cap- ital is not restricted. Gold Trade in gold is prohibited, and all transactions in gold may be conducted only by the CBU under the direct authority of the President. Emigrants are allowed to take out of the country 100 grams of gold and 200 grams of silver in the form of jewelry or personal effects. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu, the external value of which is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted basket of cur- rencies. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign exchange daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against major currencies (Austra- lian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and New Zealand dollars) are quoted within margins of 0.25 percent around the middle rate. The Reserve Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with com- mercial banks for the Government's account or for commercial bank operations. On December 31, 1992, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 110.56 and VT 111.07, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. As a rule, the commercial banks also do not provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 1,1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammuni- tion, explosives, and dangerous drugs; and certain plants, foodstuffs, and animals, which are also restricted and subject to authorization. The importa- tion of chicken pieces, canned soft drinks, and T-- shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif are restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products— rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco prod- ucts —under a scheme designed to provide funds for the National Cooperative Federation. Three import- ers pay a commission fee to the cooperative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad valo- rem basis on the c.i.f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally lia- ble to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports, based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government and funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships' stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re-expor- tation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are levied on exports. The exportation of logs has been banned for environmental reasons since 1990. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, and crustaceans1 are subject to authorization by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and exports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. 1 Including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 552 Proceeds from Invisibles VANUATU Gold Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. There are no restrictions on gold transactions, Capital Changes During 1992 All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of December 32,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Boli- var, the external value of which is determined by supply and demand conditions in the interbank market. In general, the Central Bank of Venezuela participates in the interbank market at the prevail- ing market-determined exchange rate; its foreign exchange operations are conducted so as to main- tain both an orderly development in the interbank market and its net international reserve targets. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank quotes a daily reference exchange rate for the bolivar in terms of the U.S. dollar on the basis of the buying and selling rates in the interbank market. The country's largest exporter, the state-owned Petroleum Corporation (PDVSA) and its affiliates, is obliged to sell to the Central Bank its foreign exchange earnings, except for those needed to maintain working balances at a level preapproved by the Central Bank Directorate. The Central Bank enters into agreement with PDVSA on the amount to be bought at the average interbank selling rate minus 10 centavos. The Central Bank's reference exchange rate applies to official foreign exchange transactions, other than with PDVSA, that must be effected through the Central Bank. The main trans- actions covered are disbursements and debt-service payments associated with public and publicly guar- anteed external debt and imports of goods and ser- vices by the central Government. The reference rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1992 was Bs 79.55 per US$1. All other current and capital transactions are effected through the interbank for- eign exchange market at the unified, market-deter- mined rate. Resident commercial banks and exchange houses are designated as authorized foreign exchange dealers. Exchange houses are allowed to deal only in narrowly defined cash (currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks) and are not authorized to hold or trade in foreign currency deposits. Resident commercial banks are allowed to hold foreign exchange deposits, sell such deposits to, and buy them from, other commercial banks, and purchase foreign currency personal checks. Sales of foreign exchange by authorized dealers to nonresident cor- porations, except to correspondent banks, are pro- hibited. Tourism establishments are allowed to offer their clients foreign exchange services in the form of purchases and sales of foreign currency notes, coins, and traveler's checks. Cover against exchange rate risk is provided through forward foreign exchange contracts negoti- ated freely between participants in the interbank market without the intervention of the Central Bank. However, as of the end of 1992, the forward foreign exchange market remained underdevel- oped mainly as a result of limitations affecting the domestic financial markets. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1,1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The Cen- tral Bank Directorate regulates and supervises the foreign exchange activities according to the guide- lines established by the Central Bank and the Minis- try of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Defense, or the Ministry of Foreign Relations, depending on the product. The Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX), attached to the Ministry of Finance, over- sees the registration of foreign direct investments, contracts involving technology transfers, and the use of foreign patents and trademarks. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Arms and ammunition may be imported only by the Gov- ernment. Some imports, irrespective of country of origin, are subject to licensing control for environ- mental, health, or security reasons. At the end of 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 VENEZUELA 1992, import licenses aimed at protecting domestic industries covered 320 manufactured import items (or 5 percent of all manufactured import items in the Tariff Code), including 120 luxury goods and 200 agro-industrial products; however, it was esti- mated that less than 5 percent of manufacturing pro- duction was protected. Quantitative restrictions apply to a small number of agricultural imports. Payments for imports can be effected freely through the interbank market. Imports are normally financed with 90-day letters of credit opened at a domestic commercial bank or with suppliers' credits. Most customs tar iffs on manufactured goods are on an ad valorem basis; there are four basic rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent, except for motor vehicles. Three tariff rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, and 25 percent are applied to motor vehicles, and a tariff of 5 percent is applied to completely knocked-down motor vehicle assembly kits. The trade liberalization program initiated in 1989 is now virtually complete. The average nomi- nal tariff weighted by trade values has come down from 40 percent in 1988 to less than 10 percent in 1992. Specific tariffs apply to agricultural products and to certain products included in Chapter 27 of the Tariff Code (e.g., mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bituminous substances). Exemptions from customs tar iffs are granted only to the following products in the "basic basket": pre- cooked maize, flour, canned sardines, special pow- dered milk, mixed vegetable oil, sugar, pasteurized white cheese, pulses, essential medicines, fertiliz- ers, and urban and intercity passenger transporta- tion vehicles. In addition to customs tariffs, all imports are sub- ject to customs service charges assessed on an ad valorem basis. These charges are 5 percent for arti- cles imported by air, land, and sea, and 2 percent for articles imported in postal packages. Storage charges apply to imports that remain in customs warehouses for more than 12 days. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the Free Port of Margar- ita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Venezuela and Colombia extend duty-free access to each other's imports. Duty-free entry is also granted to goods from the member countries of the CARICOM region. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market, except that an annual ceiling is applied to remittances of divi- dends from foreign direct investment in priority areas associated with debt-to-equity conversion schemes (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. There are no other controls or restrictions on exports, except for products included in the basic basket and cer- tain goods specified by the Government for reasons of public interest.1 With the exception of the export earnings of PDVSA and its affiliates, export pro- ceeds are not subject to surrender requirements and may be sold freely in the interbank market. PDVSA exports are subject to an export surcharge of 18 percent. Exports of agricultural commodities are entitled to a fiscal credit at the rate of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value in the form of a negotiable bond that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. These bonds may be used for tax payments. Fiscal credits for manufac- tured exports have been replaced by a system of drawback of customs duties that are paid on imported inputs used in export production. Draw- backs take the form of tax reimbursement certifi- cates issued by the Ministry of Finance. Exports using inputs imported under the temporal admis- sion requirement are eligible for a drawback equiv- alent to 2 percent of the export value (f.o.b.), whereas all other exports are eligible for a draw- back rate of 5 percent of the export value. Exports of primary products and exports valued at less than $50 million are not eligible for the drawback scheme. PDVSA and Ferrominera Orinoco have the monopoly on the exportation of hydrocarbons and iron ore, respectively. The National Funds for Cof- fee and Cocoa, which are autonomous institutions attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock, have the monopoly on the exportation of cof- fee and cocoa, respectively. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to surren- der requirements. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, except that foreign coins other than gold coins may not be imported for commercial purposes. 1 Among the articles subject to export licenses are certain agri- cultural products (milk, green peas, lentils, dry beans, rice, and maize), prepared and canned sardines, saccharose, sugar, u ra- n ium and thor ium minerals, me ta l l ic minerals, and fertilizers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 555 Capital Direct foreign investments in the petroleum and iron ore sectors are prohibited. Mass media, com- munications, Spanish printing presses, and secu- rity services are reserved for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authoriza- tion from the SIEX; ex post registration with the SIEX is required, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. New investments in the finan- cial sector are prohibited. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commerce Code; the SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. The reinvestment of prof- its does not require prior authorization and is not restricted. There are no restrictions on dividend remittances or on the repatriation of capital, pro- vided that all domestic taxes are paid. However, capital repatriation in respect of investments asso- ciated with debt-to-equity conversions is not allowed for the first five years following the last conversion. Foreign investors are allowed to pur- chase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the SIEX of such pur- chases at the end of each calendar year. Certain external public debt will be converted into equity. In accordance with Decree No. 2530 of September 28,1992, the Central Bank will purchase the debt instruments at a price fixed at 20 percent above the average price prevailing in the market for those instruments within the ten banking days before the date of conversion. The eligible areas are infrastructure (ports, bridges, and railways); aque- ducts and water treatment plants; terrestrial and fluvial transportation; wholesale markets for agri- cultural products; educational institutions; funds for financing research and studies for Venezuelan students in Venezuela or overseas; and medical assistance centers. The maximum component of the investment to be covered by the conversion of the external public debt will be determined by the Min- ister of Finance. To effect a debt conversion, the Central Bank pur- chases the external debt with domestic currency (or domestic currency-denominated public debt securi- ties), which is then deposited into a trust account opened by the investor with a fiduciary agent (nor- mally a commercial bank) in Venezuela. The agent is responsible for ensuring the proper use of the trust account and releases the funds in step with the implementation of the investment project. (As part of the required documentation, investors must sub- mit in advance a timetable for the investment and its "domestic component" to be financed through debt conversion.) To further ensure the proper use of the conversion proceeds, investors must deposit with a fiduciary agent a guarantee (equivalent to 5 percent of the total investment), which can be reduced in line with the implementation of the investment. There are no restrictions on conversions of pri- vate external debt into private domestic debt or equity; these conversions may be effected freely through the interbank market. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. Gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized travelers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among them- selves and other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold and imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela are reserved for the Cen- tral Bank. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and of gold coins eli- gible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. In addition, imports may require licenses from the Central Bank and, in some cases, from the Ministry of Development. The Central Bank may authorize private exporters to export gold bars, provided that such exports are reimported following transforma- tion processes not available in the country and that the reimported gold is used as an input in domestic production. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 1, Within the context of the Cartagena Agreement (Andean Pact), Venezuela and Colom- bia eliminated tariffs on each other's imports and agreed on the structure of a common external ta r i f f. March 16. Import tariffs on manufactured products were reduced to four ad valorem rates of 5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent (one year ahead of the original implementation date). June 13. Imports of goods from the member coun- tries of the CARICOM were exempted from import tariffs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 VENEZUELA June 18. An antidumping law was introduced, and dumping practices would be monitored by a commission established under the aegis of the Min- istries of Finance and of Foreign Trade. Exports and Export Proceeds May 20. The export surcharge on PDVSA's exports was reduced to 19 percent for the period from June 1-September 30 and to 18 percent for the period October 1-December 31. Capital March 25. A new Direct Investment Regime came into effect. September 28. Decree No. 2530 providing for con- version of certain external public debt into equity came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. All foreign exchange transactions take place at the rate estab- lished at foreign exchange trading floors located at the branches of the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBVN) in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. Foreign exchange (only spot U.S. dollars) in this market is auctioned once a week in Hanoi (Wednesdays) and twice a week in Ho Chi Minh City (Mondays and Fridays). About eighty operators, consisting of foreign exchange banks, for- eign trade organizations, and companies that produce gold are licensed for the Hanoi Center and about one hundred are licensed for the Ho Chi Minh City Cen- ter.1 The center obtains bids for purchases and sales of foreign exchange before each session. Economic enti- ties that need foreign exchange for their import needs or debt-repayment obligations are allowed to submit their bids to the market seven days before the due date of payment. Banks are required to ensure that economic entities' applications for foreign exchange purchases conform with current foreign trade and exchange restrictions (e.g., the requirement to have an import license) and that they actually possess resources before engaging in a transaction. The final (closing) rate at each trade session is the fixing rate. Between the end of one session and the opening of the following session, all commercial banks are required to buy at the fixing rate and sell at a rate within a max- imum margin of 0.5 percent of the fixing rate. There is an official rate, which is used only for the purpose of external aid valuation; on December 31, 1992, this rate was D 9,200 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the SBVN. For- eign trade is administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which supervises the operations carried out by the foreign trade organizations (FTOs) and firms with direct foreign trading rights. Import and export licenses, which are required for all trade trans- 1 An annual participation fee of $200 is levied in dong; in addi- tion, a commission of 0.01 percent is payable on each transaction in dong by purchasers of foreign exchange, with a maximum of $100. The trading floor has a management board, composed of four state bank employees and three commercial bank employ- ees; a representative of the SBVN serves as the chairman. actions, are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tour- ism. FTOs and firms engaged in international trade must submit annual plans for their imports and exports, which must be approved by the State Plan- ning Committee; however, revisions of the plans may be requested every three months. Settlements of inter- national trade transactions, borrowing, and manage- ment of foreign assets are carried out mainly by the Bank of Foreign Trade (BFT).2 Most grants in convert- ible currencies from bilateral official donors and inter- national organizations are under the supervision of the Committee for Reception and Management of Aid, an agency attached to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investment is monitored and coordinated by the State Committee for Cooperation and Investment. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Most transactions with the states of the former U.S.S.R. are channeled through the state budget. The Ministry of Finance carries out most payments with the states of the former U.S.S.R. and is responsible for managing the commodity and project assistance re- ceived from them, while the State Planning Commit- tee is responsible for monitoring trade with these states. Trade transactions with Albania, the Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic, and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea are settled through individual clearing accounts using clearing (or bilateral) rubles. Transactions with the Lao People's Democratic Re- public are settled under a bilateral payments arrange- ment; the balance of transactions between the two countries is determined every quarter and settled in U.S. dollars at the end of each year. Transactions with Cambodia are settled under a clearing arrangement in domestic currencies at a bilaterally agreed exchange rate of D12 per CR1. Bilateral payments agreements with Mali and the Syrian Arab Republic have been in- operative for several years. Nonresident and Resident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in 2 In 1991, the following banks were also authorized to carry out international transactions: Bank for Industry and Commerce in Saigon and Ho Chi Minh City, Expor t /Import Bank, Marine Bank, and Agricultural Bank. 557 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 VIET NAM convertible dong; however, they may not open interest-yielding bank accounts in dong. Nonresi- dents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnam- ese currency that have been acquired against for- eign currency. Vietnamese citizens are allowed to sell foreign exchange in their possession to banks, or to deposit it into interest-bearing foreign cur- rency bank accounts. Foreign currency deposited in a bank may be w i thdrawn for payments or transferred to other units or individuals. Savings accounts in foreign currency for households were introduced in May 1991. The minimum interest rate on these accounts is 3.2 percent for time deposits and 1.5 percent for sight deposits. Imports and Exports Since 1989, producing firms and local authorities have been allowed to conduct trade, and the previ- ous state monopoly over trade transactions has been substantially reduced. Exports of rice are subject to a quota, as are imports of spare parts for electronics, cigarettes, and inputs for making cigarettes. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles are subject to an annual quota of 5,000 and 100,000, respectively. At the end of 1992, imports of batteries, bicycles, chi- naware, cosmetics, electric bulbs, fans, glass sheets, plastic items, processed food, soap, and thermos flasks were prohibited. Trade transactions are carried out by about 700 firms, including 140 FTOs, which produce exportable goods or purchase them from producers. About 200 producers have temporary or permanent trading rights, which allow them to export and import directly; about 160 foreign-owned or joint- venture firms trade directly with foreign partners. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than $5 million may obtain permanent foreign direct trading rights, whereas those with an annual export turnover in the range of $2-5 million may obtain temporary foreign direct trading rights. Other firms may obtain direct export permits on the basis of shipments or trade with an FTO. Decree No. 114 entered into force in April 1992; it permits private commercial trading houses to engage in import and export activities. Local FTOs are permitted to export all commodi- ties, and local firms may import the commodities that they need for production. The procurement of exportable goods is normally unrestricted, except for some sensitive goods (such as rice), for which a min- imum export price prevails. Import prices are freely determined on the basis of world market prices. Under Decision No. 188 of the Council of Minis- ters, export earnings are subject to various surrender requirements, ranging up to 30 percent; however, this regulation is not strictly enforced. In practice, the authorities have tolerated full retention of foreign exchange receipts. All receipts must be repatriated within 30 days, except for special cases authorized by the Governor of the State Bank, such as for firms with marketing or representative activities abroad. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad is limited to $3,000 for each trip, but travelers may use their own foreign exchange. Holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the State Bank. Capital Foreign direct investment is regulated by the Law on Foreign Investment approved by the National Assembly in 1987 and amended in December 1992. The code provides for three forms of foreign invest- ment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese private enterprise or state economic organization; and (3) firms wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is no less than 30 percent, and there is no maximum limit. Other provisions in the code include (1) a 50- to 70-year limit on the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent on the remittance of profits abroad (this tax was not yet in effect at the end of 1992); and (3) profit taxes to be paid at rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit- making year (foreign joint ventures in priority sec- tors are, however, exempt from the tax in their first two years of eligibility, and the tax rate is halved in the following two years). In 1990, the code was amended to allow domestic private firms to partici- pate with foreign firms in investment projects. Provi- sions for repatriating profits were also amended to allow the use of domestic currency to purchase and export domestically produced goods and retain the proceeds from these exports abroad. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the State Committee for Cooperation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 559 and Investment, which consults with the provincial authorities concerned. Since 1988, some 300 projects have been approved, with a total committed capital of about $2.4 billion; investments amounting to about $2 billion had taken place as of the end of 1992. In principle, 100 percent of profits may be repatri- ated; however, in practice, the conversion of profits in domestic currency into foreign currency for repa- triation is governed by the prevailing foreign exchange regulations. Land cannot be owned by for- eign investors but must be leased from the state. Beginning October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for pro- duction and business purposes have been permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the borrower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold Gold may be brought into the country, provided that required customs declarations are made and a customs tariff is paid; nonresidents are entitled to export gold up to the amount they brought in. The price of gold for domestic transactions is set at auc- tions organized by the Viet Nam Gold and Silver Trading Company. The importation of gold by resi- dents requires a license from the State Bank. The authority of the provincial council to issue gold import licenses was withdrawn in 1989. Changes During 1992 Imports and Exports January 1. In the context of a new law on customs tariffs, preferential treatments previously accorded to the countries that belonged to the former Council for Mutual Economic Assistance were discontinued. April 1. Under Decree No. 114, private commercial trading houses were permitted to engage in export and import activities. April 1. Export quotas for rubber and coffee were abolished. April 1. Exports of logs and certain forestry prod- ucts, previously subjected to quotas, were prohibited for environmental reasons. April 1. Imports of motor vehicles and motorcy- cles, prohibited since 1991, were permitted, subject to annual quotas of 5,000 and 100,000, respectively. April 1. Export duties on the following products were reduced: rice, to 2 percent from 5 percent; fish products, to 5 percent from 8 percent; and rubber, to 2 percent from 5 percent. September 1. Imports of 17 commodities (including bicycles, electronic equipment except VCRs, school papers, and newsprint) were temporarily prohibited for protective reasons. October 1. Import tariffs on 90 product groups were adjusted, in accordance with the principle that the rates on products that can be produced domesti- cally would be raised and the rates on parts that can- not be produced domestically and that are used in assembling goods would be lowered. As a result, the tariff on certain small-capacity petrol and diesel engines was set at 20 percent, the tariff on sugar (except cane sugar) at 10 percent, and the tariff on various paper products at 5-15 percent. October 1. Export taxes on nine product groups Were adjusted. Changes consisted of doubling the tax on tin ore and enriched tin ore to 20 percent; set- ting the export tax on gemstones, excluding dia- monds, at 5 percent and diamonds at 1 percent; and setting the export taxes on various wood products at between 5 percent and 20 percent. The importation of the following products was banned: batteries, bicycles, chinaware, cosmetics, electric bulbs, fans, glass sheets, plastic items, processed food, soap, and thermos flasks. December 1. The import ban on 7 of the 17 com- modities that were prohibited in September 1992 was lifted. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles September 15. The foreign exchange allocation for travel abroad was raised to $3,000 from $1,000 for each trip. Capital December 23. The National Assembly approved an amendment to the 1987 Law on Foreign Investment. Under the amendment (1) the duration of joint ven- tures was extended to 50 years from 20 years and, exceptionally, to 70 years; (2) private Vietnamese enterprises were permitted to join foreign joint ven- tures; and (3) foreign joint ventures in priority sec- tors were exempted from the payment of the profit tax (which ranges from 15 percent to 25 percent) dur- ing the first two years in which they are eligible and were granted a 50 percent reduction of tax payments during the following two years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position as of December 32,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. It's exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Western Samoa's main trading part- ners. The Central Bank of Samoa has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to 2 percent. On December 31,1992, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were US$0.4099 and US$0.4093, respectively, per WS$1. Exchange rates for the tala against other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dol- lar. An exchange levy of 1 percent is charged on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the Central Bank's approval. How- ever, the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount and others up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions of currencies that may be used for making or receiving payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Non- residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments There are no import-licensing requirements. The importation of a few products is prohibited for rea- sons of security or health. Other products may be imported from any source without restriction, with the exception of used cars, which require prior approval from the Central Bank. Approvals for this item are, however, granted liberally. Imports with a c.i.f. value of more than WS$15,000 must be financed by a letter of credit. Imports with a c.i.f. value of between WS$5,000 and WS$15,000 must be settled with a sight draf t. Imports with a c.i.f. value of less than WS$5,000 may be imported under open account, provided that payments are effected within 30 days of their arrival in Western Samoa. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted when applica- tions are supported by documentary proof that cap- ital transactions are not involved. The Central Bank's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transaction is bona fide. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equiva- lent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allow- ances. A daily allowance of WS$300 a person is allotted for business travel, with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank grants supplementary allo- cations against evidence that foreign exchange is being used for approved purposes. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. All requests from residents of Western Samoa to remit funds to residents studying abroad to cover their education expenses must be supported by documentary evidence confirming that the benefi- ciary is enrolled at an educational institution abroad. There is no specific limit for such remit- tances, but the amount requested must be sup- ported by documentary evidence for costs (e.g., fees, accommodation, and meals) and must be in line with the prevailing costs in the countries of study. Residents of Western Samoa with depen- dents living abroad may remit, from personal resources, an amount not exceeding WS$2,000 a 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 561 donor a year to support such dependents. The Cen- tral Bank considers requests in excess of this amount on merit. Although no limit is set on remit- tances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. Expatriate workers are allowed to repatriate up to 80 percent of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis; their surplus earnings may be repatriated at the end of their contract. Travelers may not take out any domestic cur- rency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and on inter- est payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must, on their return, sell to the banks all unused for- eign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank, as does all borrowing abroad by residents, including banks. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or for maintenance, up to WS$250 a person a year. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investment in specified activities in West- ern Samoa is encouraged. Under the Enterprises Incentive Act, persons engaged in approved enter- prises are granted some relief from income tax and business license fees. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital must be approved by the Central Bank; such approval is granted when the appropriate documentation is supplied. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1992 Imports and Import Payments January 15. The six-month ban on imports of ciga- rettes and beer was lifted. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The exportation of taro was banned from January 1 to May 31,1992 because of domestic food shortages. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31 ,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 12.01 per US$1.1 On December 31, 1992, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 12.0 and YRls 12.02, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for 12 other currencies2 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The official rate applies to oil exports, imports of liquefied petroleum gas, flour, rice, wheat, and cer- tain medicines, as well as to payments of interest and principal on public external debt, government receipts from nonresidents, limited allocations of foreign exchange for students studying abroad or residents traveling abroad for medical treatment, the Government's transactions with Yemeni embas- sies, payments for hotel bills and airline tickets by non-Yemeni nationals, and payments to nonnation- als working for the Government. Foreign embas- sies, oil companies, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agencies are authorized to sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank at the rate of YRls 18 per US$1. All other foreign exchange transactions take place in the parallel market. The exchange rate in the parallel market, which remained close to the official rate until the liberalization of the exchange system in August 1990, was YRls 42.60 per US$1 at the end of 1992. The parallel market is operated by money changers inside Yemen and outside the country (mainly in Jiddah and Saudi Arabia). Money changes in Saudi Arabia acquire foreign exchange primarily from expatriate Yemeni work- ers and credit the accounts of the money changers with commercial banks in the Republic of Yemen. Commercial banks are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tour- ists) and abroad at the official exchange rate to effect import payments on behalf of customers and the Central Bank. They may hold 100 percent of for- eign exchange purchased on behalf of customers, lpThe dinar of the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (YD) is also circulating as legal tender at the ra te of YRls 26 per YD 1 but is gradua l ly being withdrawn from circula- tion. 2 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jor- dan dinars, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. and 50 percent of the foreign exchange purchased on behalf of the Central Bank. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Central Bank establishes a foreign exchange budget in parallel with a commodity budget pre- pared by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry in consultation with the Cen- tral Bank. All imports require a license issued by both the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Min- istry of Industry, and licenses are sent directly to banks opening letters of credit. All enterprises are permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of $5,000 for each unlicensed shipment to meet emergency requirements. The value of imports under this facility is not allowed to exceed $50,000 a year for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account but are allowed to do so for the accounts of their customers. Prescription of Currency With the exception of hotel bills and airline tick- ets of nonresidents, which must be paid in foreign currency, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Foreign Exchange Accounts Commercial banks are permitted to open freely transferable foreign currency-denominated accounts for residents and nonresidents provided that the funds in these accounts are derived from (1) foreign currency transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange receipts from licensed exports; (3) income from ser- vices rendered abroad or to nonresidents; (4) transfers from other freely transferable foreign currency accounts; or (5) foreign currencies, travel- er's checks, or bank checks that have been declared to customs. These accounts may be used to (1) finance licensed imports; (2) transfer foreign exchange abroad without prior approval from the Central Bank; (3) withdraw foreign currency in cash; 562 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 563 (4) make transfers to another freely transferable or nontransferable foreign currency account; and (5) pay expenses and bank commissions. Commercial banks are permitted to open non- transferable accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency for residents and nonresidents. Funds deposited in these accounts may derive from (1) transfers from transferable or nontransferable for- eign currency accounts; (2) foreign currency bills, traveler's checks, or bank checks, regardless of source; or (3) bank interest in the same foreign cur- rency in which the account is denominated if it is the going rate on world money markets. These accounts may be used for (1) transfers to finance licensed imports; (2) local payments for a transaction in for- eign exchange; (3) foreign transfers related to the operations of the account holder, subject to a maxi- mum of $1,500 each month or $10,000 each calendar year, with transfers in excess of these limits requiring prior approval from the Central Bank; (4) payment of foreign currency bills or other foreign exchange instruments that a bank agrees to sell, debiting the account, in order to cover the expenses of the account holder or his designee, provided that such amounts do not exceed $10,000 each calendar year; and (5) expenses and bank commissions. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank and is approved by the Supreme Council for Economic, Oil and Invest- ment Affairs. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Supply and Trade and the Ministry of Industry The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the permission of certain government agencies, and imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company, a public corporation. With the exception of medical imports, insurance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license for wheat, flour, rice, and liquefied petroleum gas may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Imports of other commodities must be self-financed; that is, 100 percent of the foreign exchange value of the import must be deposited in the importer's account at a commercial bank before a letter of credit may be issued. The importer may obtain the foreign exchange from any source other than the Central Bank, including from the parallel market. The commercial banks are authorized to open letters of credit for the importation of most goods, provided that such imports are self-financ- ing. The commercial banks are thus authorized to accept import licenses in respect of these imports (which have been issued by the Ministry of Supply and Trade) without approval from the Central Bank. Yemeni nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to establish small enterprises or c ra ft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their busi- ness activities up to a limit of $40,000 with the authorization of the Ministry of Supply and Trade. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction related to earthquake damage. Imports transported over land routes without a license are subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. A con- version rate of YRls 18 per US$1 is also applied for customs valuation purposes to unlicensed imports transported over land routes. Payments for Invisibles There is no restriction on invisible payments although amounts sold at the official exchange rate are limited. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange to students studying abroad as well as to those seeking medical treatment abroad; the amount allowed for treatment depends on their destination and may not exceed $2,500. Larger amounts are granted on presentation of an official medical report. There are no restrictions on outward remit- tances in foreign exchange by expatriate workers. Payments of hotel bills and airline tickets by non- Yemeni nationals must be made in foreign curren- cies. The exportation of Yemen rial bank notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks. Exporters of products other than petroleum may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange receipts to finance imports either of their own inputs, or of any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Exporters do not have to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which they may retain in free foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Exporters of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. The importation of Yemeni rial bank notes is prohibited. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Public Investment Authority. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits a f ter taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, investors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits af ter taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Public Investment Authority upon determination that the project is economically viable and socially acceptable; a reasonable timetable for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for five years to approved projects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. The registration of direct foreign investments and the authentication of intended profit and capital repatriation are under- taken by the Public Investment Authority. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank, which also maintains accounts of out- standing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Republic of Yemen. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The conversion rate for customs valua- tion purposes was changed from YRls 12 per US$1 toYR l s !8pe rUS$ l. July 1. Foreign embassies, oil companies, and bilateral and multilateral assistance agencies were authorized to sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank at the rate of YRls 18 per US$1. December 1. Parallel market operations were legalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. In principle, the external value of the zaire is determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions prevailing in the foreign exchange market, with the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) quoting the rate that pre- vailed in the market during the previous day. In addition to the Bank of Zaire, all commercial banks and financial institutions that have obtained the required license and have access to the clear- inghouse in Kinshasa are permitted to participate in the foreign exchange market. At the end of each day, all participating commercial banks and finan- cial institutions are required to determine the total value of purchase and sales transactions in Belgian francs, French francs, and U.S. dollars with cus- tomers and with other commercial banks and financial institutions. The banks must also deter- mine the value in zaires of the transactions in each of the three currencies and report to the Bank of Zaire the calculated average effective buying and selling rates of the three currencies, as well as the highest and lowest rates quoted in these transac- tions. The Bank of Zaire uses this information to arrive at the average effective exchange rate of the zaire against the U.S. dollar. This rate is used to determine the exchange rate of the zaire for 22 other currencies and units, based on the rates provided by the IMF between the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned.1 These rates are then used as indicative rates at the opening of trading on the day of their publication and are applied to all government operations, including debt-service payments and the transactions of government- owned enterprises. Charges or commissions are not assessed on inter- bank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institu- tions may charge an exchange commission not exceeding 1 percent. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign bank notes set by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5 percent. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, European Currency Units, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, SDKs, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Forward transactions may be conducted in the for- eign exchange market. Despite the unification of the foreign exchange market, informal arrangements under which exporters sell foreign exchange to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates are still in operation. These bilateral deals are transacted through and recorded by commercial banks and are subject to a commission. A substantial spread exists between the official and parallel market exchange rates. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has full regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the medium- and long-term external and domestic public and publicly guaran- teed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt pol- icy, including terms and guarantees extended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guar- anteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible cur- rencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in zaires or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), Burundi and Rwanda, and the member countries of the Economic Community of Central 565 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 ZAIRE Afr ican States (CEEAC)2 are made through convert- ible accounts established under arrangements con- cluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these con- vertible accounts at the end of settlement periods— each quarter for the CEPGL countries and each month for the CEEAC countries —are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtu- ally all settlements (other than for re-exports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through the Central African Clearinghouse (Cham- bre de compensation de 1'Afrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: nonresident foreign currency accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), nonresident convertible accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), nonresident ordinary accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and nonresident special accounts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts are maintained as sight deposits and may not show a debit balance. Nonresident foreign currency accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened at any authorized commercial bank without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. The opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. Such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and official multilateral organiza- tions) or for official civil and military cooperation programs. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited with foreign currency payments by residents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of for- eign currencies from nonresident convertible accounts; (3) proceeds from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against zai'res; 2 Burund i, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo, Equa to r ial Gu inea, Gabon, Rw and a, and Sao Tome and Principe. (3) arbitrage of foreign currencies against other for- eign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or travel- er's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident convertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers of means of payment in foreign currency at banks or authorized financial institu- tions; (2) transfers from other nonresident convert- ible accounts as well as from resident foreign currency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commercial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange regulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) purchases in the foreign exchange market of for- eign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other non- resident convertible accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zai'res at any authorized commercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zai'res, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zai'res from nonresident con- vertible accounts; and (3) receipts in zai'res from res- idents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zai'res to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zai'res. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident special accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) sale or rent from real estate prop- erties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, com- mercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in zai'res and owned by non- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 567 Zai'rian residents permanently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a nonresident spe- cial account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons. The same requirements apply to proceeds from the sale of real estate or the rental of fixed capital owned by non-Zai'rian resi- dents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (1) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organiza- tions or any nonprofit cultural, philanthropic, or social organizations; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Govern- ment of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident foreign currency accounts. Residents are permitted to open foreign currency (RME) accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transac- tions; they may also be credited with receipts from exports of goods and services and the prefinancing of such exports, within the limits established by the Bank of Zaire. These accounts may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denomi- nated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire publishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obligation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign exchange account to another opened in the name of the same holder, with the exception of accounts opened by artisanal diamond and gold marketing agencies. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports apply to imports financed from these accounts. Anyone permitted to make import payments through this method (using Form I) may do so by debiting these accounts. Authorized banks may pay royalties, merchandise transport costs, services, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts on the instruc- tion of the account holders, who provide the sup- porting documents required under the exchange regulations. For account holders with the requisite supporting documentation, Form V is not required for withdrawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or that will be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohib- ited or require special authorization from the Gov- ernment. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. In gen- eral, import declarations remain valid for 12 months; an importer wishing to extend the validity period must so indicate in the import documents accompa- nying the import declaration. The validity may be extended for the first time by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; if shipment has not begun, extension of the validity period requires authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Imports of goods intended for expansion of a capital base or for the importer's own use may be effected without a decla- ration to an authorized bank, provided that the value does not exceed SDR 1,000 per tariff item and SDR 5,000 per shipment and that the shipments are financed from the importer's own resources. All goods shipped by sea to Zaire must be trans- ported on vessels belonging to shipowners that are bonded with the Office zairois de gestion des frets maritimes (OGEFREM) and whose freight charges have been negotiated with that office. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Banks may pay freight charges only upon presentation of invoices from the carriers or their agents. The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Authorized banks are allowed to pay trans- portation and insurance costs in foreign currency only on imports for which they provide financing on an f.o.b. basis. With a few exceptions, imports are subjected to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Zairian Control Office (OZAC); however, in special cases, verification may be effected upon arrival, subject to a waiver from the Bank of Zaire. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, or of SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval from the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (2) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing for- eign financing with a maturity of more than one year, except imports contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (3) imports requiring a down pay- ment in foreign currency before shipment; and (4) imports requiring special authorization from the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 ZAIRE Government and imports of currency, coins, and articles imitating or bearing the monetary symbols of Zairian currency. The customs tar iff rates range from 15 percent to 50 percent, with a special rate of 5 percent for cer- tain equipment. The rate of the turnover tax ranges from zero to 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Zairian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by OGEFREM. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. How- ever, outward remittances of salaries of expatriate employees are limited to the levels authorized dur- ing the preceding year. The transfer abroad of sala- ries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the nontrans- ferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on pri- vate loans, and payments of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign partici- pation are authorized. Transfers of rental income received by nonresidents and residents who are for- eign nationals are suspended. Payments for com- missions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires or in foreign currency for trips originating in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange from banks or authorized finan- cial institutions. Residents who are foreign nation- als and who are entitled to transfer part of their income abroad are not allowed to obtain foreign currency from authorized banks to pay for their tickets for international travel and their living expenses abroad involving private travel. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs once a month. The exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins by residents and nonresidents is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. However, the exportation of Zairian bank notes and coins by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the lim- its of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must file an exchange document (dec- laration of foreign exchange commitment), which banks are normally authorized to validate, for all exports. These declarations must specify the type of merchandise to be exported, its price, and the cur- rency in which payment is to be received. Declara- tions of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days. Exports must be carried out and proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period, which must not exceed 45 days from the date of shipping. Exporters are authorized to receive the following in their RME accounts at authorized banks: (1) at least 35 percent of their export-generated revenue, other than proceeds from prefinancing, to the extent that repatriation occurs within the legally required period of 45 days from the date of ship- ment; and (2) 100 percent of funds received as prefi- nancing for products intended for exportation. The corresponding ratios for other firms are as follows: with the exception of companies that bene- fit from special waivers from the Bank of Zaire, including Generale des carrieres et des mines du Zaire, 45 percent; Societe de developpement indus- triel et minier du Zaire, 50 percent; and Societe miniere de Bakwanga, 20 percent. The Bank of Zaire may authorize the holding abroad of a por- tion of earnings from exports. The exportation, turnover, and statistical taxes on coffee exports have been suspended. Economic transactors may export coffee, subject to inspection and quality certificates issued respectively by the OZAC and the Zairian Office for Coffee (OZACAF). As in the case of other export products, coffee may be exported under prefinancing contracts. Artisanal gold and diamonds may be exported only through authorized marketing agencies (comp- toirs agrees). The Bank of Zaire purchases and exports gold on its own account, along with the authorized market- ing agencies in the market. Industrial diamonds and gold may be exported directly by the mining companies involved. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and transferred through authorized banks. For some ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 569 operations, proceeds may be credited to an RME account. An unlimited amount of bank notes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country. The importation of Zairian bank notes and coins is permitted only up to the equivalent of $100. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is per- mitted only at the time of liquidation, nationaliza- tion, or partial or total transfers of shares. Borrowed capital and equity contributions are authorized. Transfers abroad of such contributions made under the Investment Code are guaranteed. The Bank of Zaire also guarantees transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and profits in respect of foreign capital covered under the provisions of the Investment Code. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive min- ing concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate persons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for the account of authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold and diamonds by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Changes During 1992 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Most transactions, except for imports under the open general license (OGL) system, take place at exchange rates determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange bureau market. For some foreign transactions, foreign exchange is allocated by the Bank of Zambia, which fixes its buying and selling rates on the basis of the exchange rates quoted by the foreign exchange bureaus, with appropriate spreads to reflect the bank's exchange margins. This rate is applied to the purchase of export proceeds from the State Mining Company (ZCCM) and sales of foreign exchange to the Government, ZCCM, the State Oil Company (ZIMOIL), and Zambia Airways. For OGL imports financed by donor assistance, a discount from the foreign exchange bureau rate is set by the Bank of Zambia, taking into account transaction costs. For- eign exchange for donor-financed OGL imports was sold at a discount of 15 percent relative to the foreign exchange bureau rate. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government, authorized banks, and foreign exchange bureaus in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to deal in the currencies of neigh- boring countries, on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets, subject to approval by the Bank of Zambia. In its dealings with commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.5 percent for purchases and 1.5 percent for sales of foreign exchange. When quoting their rates to customers, authorized banks are permitted to charge an addi- tional 1 percent on either side for transactions by telegraphic transfers, and an additional 1.25 percent for sales and purchases of foreign currency notes. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector, although banks are allowed to maintain open foreign exchange positions. Administration of Control bility of the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, from residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an external account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. External Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by foreign embassies and missions, diplo- mats, and expatriate staff of the United Nations and similar international organizations are designated as external accounts. Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange control authorities before opening these accounts, which can be credited only with funds originating from abroad. Balances of external accounts may be transferred abroad or withdrawn for use in Zambia without exchange control permission. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities and take place at the foreign exchange bureau rate. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Nonresident Zambians and resident Zambians who work for international organizations and earn foreign currencies may open foreign currency accounts with commercial banks, subject to prior approval from the Bank of Zambia. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be effected under the OGL system, which operates on the basis of a negative list.1 Imports covered by the OGL system do not require Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. The control of trade is the responsi- l rThe negative list includes gold, silver, p la t inum, jewelry, weapons and ammunition, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, televi- sions, radios, videocassette recorders and camcorders, and pas- senger automobiles. 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 571 a license. Donor-financed imports under the OGL are effected at a 15 percent discount from the pre- vailing exchange rate in the foreign exchange bureau market. Personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought into Zambia temporarily may also be imported without a license. Import licenses, when issued, are subject to a 10 percent fee based on the c.i.f. value. Payments for imports for which foreign exchange is requested from the Bank of Zambia (i.e., for Gov- ernment transactions, ZIMOIL, and Zambia Air- ways) must be made by irrevocable documentary letters of credit. For imports of goods valued up to $50,000, importers must submit one invoice price quotation; for imports valued between $50,000 and $500,000, importers are required to provide three separate invoice quotations, and for those valued at more than $500,000, importers must provide evi- dence that they have attempted to obtain the most competitive price through international competi- tive bidding. The Bank of Zambia does not approve payments for imports unless a satisfactory report regarding preshipment inspection is issued by international agencies. All imports that are settled with official foreign exchange are subject to pre- shipment inspection by international agencies, except where the f.o.b. value of each import con- signment is less than $10,000. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, with specific information. Imports are subject to a tariff with a minimum rate of 15 percent and a maximum rate of 50 percent (except for a few luxury goods). Some imports are exempt under the provisions of bilateral agree- ments, and nontraditional exporters and certain import-competing firms are exempt under the 1991 Investment Act. In addition, imported goods are subject to an "uplift factor" in computing domestic sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles may be effected freely through foreign exchange bureaus, up to a limit of $2,000 a day. A separate limit of $2,000 for each trip applies to purchases of foreign exchange for tourist travel. Payments for freight and other related charges on imports require the approval of the Bank of Zambia. Purchases of foreign exchange by Zambian residents equivalent to $225 a day for business travel of up to 14 days and payments of less than $500 a transaction for advertising, man- agement, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents do not require prior approval from the Bank of Zambia. There is no control or limit on pur- chases of foreign exchange for medical treatment certified as necessary by the Ministry of Health. Dividends earned on the nonresidents' share in paid-up equity capital invested since 1989 may be transferred, up to 20 percent of the capital or 50 percent of the net profits attributable to such capital, whichever is smaller. Expatriate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits; a further 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Foreign nationals working on contract in Zambia may generally remit up to the equivalent of $4,260 a year in monthly installments as an "inducement allowance." The Bank of Zambia permits higher inducement allowances in individual cases, depending upon the person's position and profes- sional experience and expertise. In addition, expa- triates may remit a gratuity of up to 25 percent of the inducement allowance. Payments to expatriates employed by ZCCM are made from the company's own allocations of foreign exchange and are not subject to the above limitation, whereas all other inducement payments must be made from the working balances of commercial banks. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrange- ments are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, and maintenance; they may transfer their salary or accumulated leave, gratuity, and other terminal benefits as part of their emigra- tion allowance only after completing the contract period. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out up to $100 in Zambian currency. The currency declaration form required of all travelers entering Zambia was eliminated on June 19,1992. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, unless the goods represent a genuine personal gift and their value does not exceed K 100, must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form and require a license. Although export licenses are required for most goods, they are administered routinely by commercial banks under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of white maize, fertilizers, and petroleum products may be subject to quantita- tive restrictions when domestic supplies are short; ivory exports are prohibited. Only proceeds from ZCCM metal exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia; in order to receive foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 ZAMBIA exchange, ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zambia account abroad upon receipt and receives foreign exchange from that account. Exporters of nontraditional products are allowed to retain all of their foreign exchange earnings and sell them in the foreign exchange bureau market. Generally, exports must be financed through irre- vocable letters of credit or advance payments. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is necessary for all exports whose methods of payment d iffer from those mentioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may be retained in full. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that travelers may import, except for travelers from Zaire, who are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in up to $100 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. How- ever, all borrowings outside Zambia require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Out- ward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresi- dents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments once they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zam- bia. Repatriation is generally spread over more than three years. Local borrowing by companies con- trolled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 1 for manufacturing companies and 1 to 3 for others. However, there is no such limit when borrowings are intended for agricultural operations. Prior approval from the Bank of Zambia is required for borrowings in excess of the above limits. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as fol- lows: (1) a settling-in allowance equivalent to K 25,000 for a single person, K 35,000 for a married couple, K 50,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 2,000 for a child (up to a maximum of four children); and (2) an anniversary allowance equiva- lent to K 15,000 for a single person, K 25,000 for a married couple, and K 35,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, special facilities for expatriate farmers allow for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange con- trol approval. Changes During 1992 Exchange Arrangement June 19. Nongovernmental organizations and pri- vate foreign investors were authorized to sell for- eign exchange in the export retention market. October 14. A system of foreign exchange bureaus began operation, allowing unrestricted access to foreign exchange for current transactions, other than debt-service payments and imports of jewelry, precious metals, and weapons, of up to $6,000 a day; proceeds from nontraditional exports or from other current transactions were allowed to be sold either in the export-retention market or the foreign exchange bureau market. December 7. The official exchange rate was merged with the export retention/foreign exchange bureau rate. This exchange rate would be determined by the market and applied to all transactions, except for imports under the OGL system. The Bank of Zambia would fix the buying and selling rates based on this rate with appropriate margins and apply them to the purchase of ZCCM's export receipts and sales of for- eign exchange to the Government, ZIMOIL, and Zambia Airways. Allocations of donor funds for OGL imports would be made at a discount, fixed by the Bank of Zambia, from the foreign exchange bureau rate. The discount applicable to imports was set initially at 15 percent. Administration of Control December 1. ( l )The Bank of Zambia ceased to allocate foreign exchange for repatriation of funds from the kwacha external accounts of nonresidents, and such remittances were allowed to be made by authorized dealers from their own working bal- ances or with purchases of foreign exchange from the exchange market; (2) the Bank of Zambia ceased allocating foreign exchange for payment abroad for selected services provided by public sector corpora- tions, including clearing and freight charges, rein- surance for Zambia Airways, and medical treatment; and (3) pursuant to the above modifica- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 573 tions, the Bank of Zambia ceased allocating foreign exchange to commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments May 8. Fertilizer was added to the list of products that may be imported under the OGL system. September 21. The OGL system was shifted to a system based on a negative list, and coverage was widened to include about 95 percent of imports. Payments for Invisibles June 19. (I) The documentation requirements for purchases of foreign exchange for business travel were streamlined, and the requirement of prior approval from the Bank of Zambia was eliminated for travel of up to 14 days a trip and a maximum purchase equivalent of $225 a day; (2) the require- ment of prior approval from the Bank of Zambia was eliminated for a wide range of service pay- ments, up to a maximum of $500 a transaction; and (3) the limit on the amount of Zambian currency that may be taken out of Zambia was raised from K 100 to the equivalent of $100 at the retention mar- ket rate. December 1. Restrictions on the purchase of for- eign exchange from the foreign exchange market for medical treatment were lifted, contingent on a certificate of need from the Ministry of Health. Exports and Export Proceeds March 11. The percentage of export earnings that exporters of nontraditional products may retain was raised to 100 percent from 50 percent. At the same time, the provision of foreign exchange for many types of service transactions and remittances was shifted from the official foreign exchange mar- ket to the retention market. Proceeds from Invisibles April 27. Nonresident visitors, foreign diplomats, and expatriates were permitted to sell foreign exchange in the export-retention market. June 19. (1) The limit on the amount of Zambian currency that may be brought into Zambia was increased from K 100 to the equivalent of $100 at the retention market rate; and (2) the currency dec- laration form previously required of all travelers entering Zambia was eliminated. December 1. The surrender requirement for for- eign currency remittances from abroad for embas- sies, other diplomatic missions,^ and international organizations was abolished; these funds were allowed to be sold to commercial banks or foreign exchange bureaus at the market rate. Capital June 19. (1) The ownership of foreign exchange deposited in retention accounts, pending its use for authorized transactions, was shifted from the Bank of Zambia to commercial banks; and (2) the limits on the open foreign exchange positions that may be maintained by commercial banks were liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of December 31,1992) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for all currencies. Authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks) may charge an additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies. The autho- rized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On Decem- ber 31,1992, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for commercial banks were US$0.1832 and US$0.1817, respectively, per Z$l. A tax of 20 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange intended for use during holiday travel. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the size of such contracts, but they must be limited to peri- ods of six to eight months, depending on the cur- rencies involved and the type of coverage. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount and /or premium rates for major curren- cies. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe purchases for- ward foreign exchange at the spot preferential telex transfer rate quoted to authorized dealers, less 0.50 percent for three-month contracts, 3 percent for one-year contracts, and an additional 3 percent for each year beyond one year, up to 15 percent for a five-year contract. Forward sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus a premium loading for six months, depending on the currencies involved and type of coverage. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers the dealers' own telex transfer rates (sight rates plus or minus the margins applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in keeping with the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (Julyl, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars (issued periodically). Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (agriculture) Regula- tions of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (importation and exportation) (commerce) Regula- tions of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order of 1979; the Control of Goods (open general import license) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (open gen- eral export license) Notice of 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use national cur- rencies in day-to-day payments during a transac- tion period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 575 from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the open general import license (OGIL) and Export Retention Scheme (ERS), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange alloca- tion. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Committee chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning, and Development and are allocated to individual users by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports in the commercial category include those by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the pub- lic sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct imports by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essenti- ality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of employment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allo- cated to individual commercial importers for sin- gle-tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign exchange is allocated to manufacturers for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive from the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce separate allocations for raw mate- rials required for production for local and export markets; allocations for local markets are assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availabil- ity, whereas those for export markets take the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with a possible additional allocation from an Export- Revolving Fund against proof of exports. Industrial exporters may also receive a supplementary alloca- tion, determined on the basis of their incremental export performance, to import raw materials used in production for the domestic market. Under the ERS, all exporting firms acquire import rights based on their foreign exchange earnings and are permitted to use these rights for imports of all goods, except for a small number of items on the negative list. Import rights may be sold without restriction. Import licenses must be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. In general, import licenses are valid for 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but this period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of sup- ply. Licenses are issued on an f.o.b. basis and do not cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, pro- vided the necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 35 percent of the c.i.f. value, and specific duties on a number of prod- ucts. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5 percent and 20 percent) equiva- lent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. In principle, foreign investors are allowed to remit between 50 percent and 100 percent of after-tax prof- its on investments, subject to certain conditions. The following regulations apply to the export sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that meets the crite- ria to qualify as an export firm and funds its projects through a combination of foreign exchange, "switched blocked funds," or surplus funds is per- mitted to remit the declared dividends from net after-tax profits on a basis proportionate to the level of foreign exchange invested but limited to a maxi- mum of 50 percent for five years from the beginning of operations, after which the company will qualify for 100 percent remittance of dividends (blocked and surplus funds are assets held by foreigners as a result ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 ZIMBABWE of the limited remittance of dividends; switched blocked funds are blocked funds purchased by a for- eigner from the original owner); (2) a wholly foreign- owned company with its own blocked funds is per- mitted to repatriate 100 percent of its declared divi- dends, provided it meets all its foreign exchange requirements from external sources; and (3) in the case of a new joint venture that meets the criteria to qualify as an export firm and has at least 30 percent local participation, the foreign partner is allowed to remit 100 percent of its share of declared dividends, provided that it meets its share of foreign exchange requirements from external sources. Currently, under the ERS, 50 percent of payments for technology transfers, management and other advisory services, commissions, and fees for repair services may be made with retained foreign exchange. However, the Bank of Zimbabwe must first grant the commercial banks permission to provide the initial 50 percent. Outward remittances in respect of services are sub- ject to a 20 percent tax; in cases that fall under double taxation agreements, the tax rate is 10 percent. The following regulations apply to investments in the mining sector: (1) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through foreign funds is allowed to repatriate 100 percent of its net after-tax profits, provided that it qualifies as an export-oriented project; (2) a wholly foreign-owned company that funds its projects through a combina- tion of foreign funds and either its own blocked funds, switched blocked funds, or surplus funds (subject to a minimum matching formula of 50/50) is allowed to remit dividends of up to 50 percent in proportion to the matching ratio; and (3) the level of dividend remittance for joint ventures subject to the minimum 30 percent local participation crite- rion is also determined by the matching formula used by the foreign shareholder. After five years, the company can remit 100 percent of its dividends to the foreign shareholder. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$800 for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are entitled to one-half this amount.) The allowance may be accumulated for up to three years but is not granted in advance. The basic for- eign exchange allowance for import-related busi- ness travel is Z$600 a day, up to a maximum of Z$6,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$l2,000; for export-related business travel, the exchange allowance is Z$700 a day, up to a maxi- mum of Z$8,000 a trip and Z$16,000 a year. The lim- its for business travel are the amounts that authorized dealers can provide; applications for business travel allowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank and are treated favorably, especially those for export-related trips. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level for cer- tain diploma and degree courses. All applications for educational allowances must be submitted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for approval. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$200 a day each for the patient and any neces- sary accompanying companion for a maximum of 30 days. Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for approval. Remittances of up to Z$500 for subscrip- tions to learned or technical societies and Z$100 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$250. Remittances to close rela- tives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$100 a month for each individual bene- ficiary and Z$200 a month for each family unit, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Beginning March 27, 1984, the settling-in allowance that emi- grants may remit abroad is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applica- tions exceeding this maximum. Since April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. If emigrants are unable to comply with the six- month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Transferable allow- ances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons (under 60 years of age) with dependents, Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; and (6) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A fur ther release of capital is authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of their travel allowance, not more than Z$250 in Zimbabwean currency, together with a maxi- mum of the equivalent of Z$250 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out the trav- eler's checks they brought in, less the amount they ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 577 sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign curren- cies on presentation of exchange certificates. All nonresident travelers are required to pay an airport tax of US$20 on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must have licenses to export the follow- ing: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) jute and hes- sian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that pay- ment has been made in an approved manner or will be made within three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Payments for exports must be received in one of the following ways: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA arrangement, member countries can use national currencies in the settlement of payments during a transaction period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in con- vertible currencies. Exports to some fifty countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed before exporta- tion by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Under the ERS, exporters acquire import rights in proportion to their export proceeds and are allowed to use these rights either to make payments for imports and services or to obtain entitlements for foreign exchange, which may be sold at negotiated prices. The retention ratio was 25 percent during the first half of 1992 and 30 percent during the sec- ond.2 Authorized dealers are the appointed trading agencies in the ERS. They are required to display indicative premium rates on a daily basis and to 2 The retention ratio was raised Janua ry 1,1993. to 35 percent effective submit to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe monthly reports on the utilization of ERS entitlements, including the amount of commission fees charged. An export subsidy at the rate of 9 percent of the f.o.b. value is granted on specified exports of manu- factured products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable time. Under the ERS, residents performing services abroad may also retain a portion of their earnings. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but must be sold or exchanged in Zimba- bwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a maxi- mum of Z$250. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. How- ever, all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation af ter two years, pro- vided that the amount to be repatriated is reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the established medium of six-year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before September 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, share- holders are allowed, within limits, to apply to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local resi- dents, and if such application is approved, the capi- tal is invested in external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years (for individuals) or 20 years (for firms). Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sales prices of net equity is allowed. Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in Gov- ernment of Zimbabwe external bonds with a matu- rity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. Remittance of a former resident's Zimba- bwean pension is guaranteed under the constitu- tion. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank of Zimba- bwe, as are dealings in external securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 ZIMBABWE Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zimba- bwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of up to 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as determined by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Blocked funds can be utilized for investment by third parties, foreign as well as domestic, on freely negotiated terms; as new venture capital, the total investment is eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 percent of after- tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must be reinvested in Zimbabwe for at least five years. Gold The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (exportation of minerals and metals) Order, 1979, which is administered by the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal or certain other specified metals and minerals without an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intending to import gold into Zimba- bwe to meet certain requirements. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or princi- pal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, possession, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permis- sion can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd., is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the act. Each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is required to lodge with this bank all gold acquired each month by the tenth day of the follow- ing month. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act that authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1992 Payments for Invisibles December 29. The amount travelers departing Zimbabwe are permitted to take out was raised to a maximum of Z$250 in Zimbabwean currency notes. December 29. The foreign exchange allowance for medical treatment was increased to Z$200 a day apiece for a patient and an accompanying compan- ion for a maximum period of 30 days. Exports and Export Proceeds December 29. The ERS was extended to cover pay- ments for invisibles, specifically business travel, commissions, and professional, technical, training, marketing, and administration fees. With effect from January 4, 1993, the Reserve Bank of Zimba- bwe authorizes the commercial banks to provide 50 percent of the foreign exchange needed for invisible payments, with the balance to be met from the ERS market. Where blanket authorities have been granted, whether specific or in terms of the "Green Book," authorized dealers are advised to apply the new policy in respect of the invisible items men- tioned above. This new policy does not apply to the central Government; the Reserve Bank of Zimba- bwe continues to provide 100 percent of the Gov- ernment's foreign exchange requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles December 29. The amount travellers arriving in Zimbabwe are permitted to bring with them was increased to a maximum of Z$250 in Zimbabwean currency notes. Capital December 29. The use of ERS funds was extended to cover repatriation of foreign direct investments and cross-border investments. Applicants for repa- triation of foreign direct investments through the medium of six-year external government bonds have the option to remit the approved amount through the ERS market. Applications for remit- tances must in all cases specify the preferred option, and when ERS funds are to be used, applicants must indicate the person responsible for the pay- ment of the premium. In the case of cross-border investments, only companies with 51 percent to 74 percent local ownership are allowed to finance cross-border investments through the ERS market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX European Community: Selected Trade Measures Introduced and Eliminated on an EC-Wide Basis During 19921 Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction February 4. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of radiobroadcast receivers of a kind used in motor vehicles originating in the Re- public of Korea (Commission Regulation No. 313/92). March 23. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of cotton yarn originating in Brazil and Turkey (Council Regulation No. 738/92). March 30. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain polyester yarns (man- made staple fibers) originating in Taiwan Province of China, India, Indonesia, and Turkey (Council Reg- ulation No. 830/92). March 30. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain semifinished products of alloy steel originating in Brazil and Turkey (Commis- sion Decision No. 891/92/ECSC). March 30. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of silicon metal originating in Bra- zil (Commission Regulation No. 906/92). April 23. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of potassium chloride (potash) originating in Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Commission Regulation No. 1031/92). June 2. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain large electrolytic alumi- num capacitors originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 1451/92). June 30. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of certain semifinished products of alloy steel originating in Brazil and Turkey (Commis- sion Decision No. 1775/92/ECSC). June 30. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of ferrosilicon originating in Egypt and Poland (Commission Regulation No. 1808/92). July 7. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of synthetic fibers of polyesters originating in India and the Republic of Korea (Com- mission Regulation No. 1956/92). July 14. Provisional antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of outer ring of tapered roller bear- ing originating in Japan (Commission Regulation No. 1994/92). 1 Source: Official Journal of the European Communities. August 4. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of silicon metal originating in Bra- zil (Council Regulation No. 2305/92). August 4. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of radiobroadcast receivers of a kind used in motor vehicles originating in the Re- public of Korea (Council Regulation No. 2306/92). September 16. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain types of electronic microcircuits known as DRAMs (dynamic random access memories) originating in the Republic of Korea (Commission Regulation No. 2686/92). September 25. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of deadburned (sintered) mag- nesia originating in China (Commission Regulation No. 2799/92). September 25. Provisional antidumping duty was imposed on imports of magnesium oxide originating in China (Commission Regulation No. 2800/92). October 23. Definitive antidumping duty was im- posed on imports of potassium chloride originating in Belarus, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine (Council Regulation No. 3068/92). November 30. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of certain large electrolytic alu- minum capacitors originating in Japan (Council Reg- ulation No. 3482/92). December 14. Definitive antidumping duty was imposed on imports of ferrosilicon originating in Egypt and Poland (Council Regulation No. 3642/92). 2. Extension January 15. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of certain thermal paper originating in Japan was extended (Council Regulation No. 103/92). January 24. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of cotton yarn originating in Brazil, Egypt, and Turkey was extended (Council Regulation No. 171/92). January 27. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of certain polyester yarns (man-made staple fibers) originating in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Taiwan Province of China, and Turkey was extended (Coun- cil Regulation No. 202/92). June 4. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of radiobroadcast receivers of a kind used in motor vehicles originating in the Republic of Korea was extended (Council Regulation No. 1483/92). 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 APPENDIX September 21. Provisional antidumping duty on im- ports of ferrosilicon originating in Egypt and Poland was extended (Council Regulation No. 2778/92). September 28. Provisional antidumping duty on imports of certain large electric aluminum capacitors originating in Japan was extended (Council Regula- tion No. 2848/92). 3. Elimination January 27. Definitive antidumping duty on im- ports of certain iron or steel sheets originating in Mexico was eliminated (Commission Decision No. 322/92/ECSC). June 15. Antidumping duties on imports of cer- tain consumer electronic goods originating in certain non-EC member countries into the Canary Islands were temporarily eliminated (Council Regulation No. 1602/92). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 10, Countervailing charge was introduced on mandarins originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 66/92). January 17. Countervailing charge was imposed and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 112/92). February 18. Countervailing charge was intro- duced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 389/92). February 18. Countervailing charge was intro- duced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of fresh sweet oranges originating in Tur- key (Commission Regulation No. 390/92). March 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 567/92). March 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria (Commission Regulation No. 630/92). April 3. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Reg- ulation No. 857/92). April 8. Countervailing charge was introduced on lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regula- tion No. 892/92). April 22. Countervailing charge was introduced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 996/92). April 23. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Commission Regulation No. 1009/92). April 28. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 1053/92). April 29. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria (Commission Regulation No. 1070/92). June 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on apricots originating in Tunisia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1481/92). June 5. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1482/92). June 16. Countervailing charge was introduced on apricots originating in Tunisia (Commission Regula- tion No. 1541/92). June 18. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Brazil (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1563/92). June 24. Countervailing charge was introduced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1619/92). June 25. Countervailing charge was introduced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of cherries originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1640/92). July 3. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 1835/92). July 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 1862/92). July 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on cherries originating in Romania (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1863/92). July 10. Countervailing charge was introduced on cherries originating in the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic (Commission Regulation No. 1915/92). July 20. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Poland (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2012/92). July 29. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 2156/92). July 30. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2189/92). August 3. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2259/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 581 August 3. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2260/92). August 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on tomatoes originating in Poland (Commission Regulation No. 2365/92). August 12. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 2366/92). August 21. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2439/92). August 21. Countervailing charge was introduced on table grapes originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 2441/92). August 24. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Brazil (Commission Regula- tion No. 2450/92). August 26. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2474/92). August 26. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2475/92). September 3. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 2580/92). September 3. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in New Zealand (Com- mission Regulation No. 2581/92). September 3. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation no. 2582/92). September 3. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Ro- mania (Commission Regulation No. 2583/92). September 7. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on table grapes originating in Turkey (Com- mission Regulation No. 2601/92). September 7. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in South Africa (Com- mission Regulation No. 2602/92). September 8. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay (Commission Regulation No. 2611/92). September 10. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Bul- garia (Commission Regulation No. 2638/92). September 10. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2639/92). September 14. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Ro- mania (Commission Regulation No. 2661/92). September 14. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2662/92). September 15. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Argentina (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2678/92). September 21. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Brazil (Commission Regulation No. 2739/92). September 21. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Bul- garia (Commission Regulation No. 2740/92). September 21. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on certain varieties of plum originating in Hungary (Commission Regulation No. 2741/92). September 22. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in Chile (Commission Regulation No. 2756/92). September 25. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Commission Regulation No. 2805/92). October 6. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in New Zealand (Commission Regulation No. 2909/92). October 7. Countervailing charge was introduced on apples originating in South Africa (Commission Regulation No. 2923/92). October 20. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 3015/92). October 28. Countervailing charge was introduced on certain varieties of plum originating in the United States (Commission Regulation No. 2816/92). October 28. Countervailing charge was introduced on fresh lemons originating in South Africa (Com- mission Regulation No. 3117/92). October 29. Countervailing charge was introduced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Com- mission Regulation No. 3131/92). October 29. Countervailing charge was introduced on cucumbers originating in Romania (Commission Regulation No. 3151/92). November 19. Countervailing charge was intro- duced and preferential customs duty was suspended on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 3347/92). November 23. Countervailing charge was intro- duced on apples originating in New Zealand (Com- mission Regulation No. 3362/92). November 25. New countervailing charge was in- troduced on fresh lemons originating in Turkey, and Commission Regulation No. 3347/92 (November 19, 1992) was repealed (Commission Regulation No. 3385/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 2. Amendment APPENDIX January 29. Countervailing charge on fresh water oranges originating in Turkey was raised (Commis- sion Regulation No. 201/92). February 25. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was raised (Commis- sion Regulation No. 441/92). March 3. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 542/92). March 9. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was lowered (Commission Regulation No. 599/92). March 12. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 629/92). March 18. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 676/92). May 8. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1200/92). May 12. Countervailing charge on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1212/92). July 1. Countervailing charge on cherries originat- ing in Bulgaria was raised (Commission Regulation No. 1796/92). July 14. Countervailing charge on cherries orig- inating in Bulgaria was raised (Commission Regula- tion No. 1946/92). July 15. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was raised (Commission Regulation No. 1968/92). July 22. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was raised (Commission Regulation No. 2040/92). August 18. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was lowered (Commission Regulation No. 2404/92). August 24. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was lowered (Commission Regulation No. 2451/92). September 4. Countervailing charge on apples originating in Argentina was lowered (Commission Regulation No. 2595/92). September 8. Countervailing charge on apples originating in Brazil was raised (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2613/92). September 14. Countervailing charge on apples originating in South Africa was raised (Commission Regulation No. 2664/92). September 18. Countervailing charge on apples originating in South Africa was raised (Commission Regulation No. 2723/92). September 21. Countervailing charge on apples originating in New Zealand was raised (Commission Regulation No. 2742/92). September 24. Countervailing charge on apples originating in South Africa was raised (Commission Regulation No. 2749/92). September 29. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was lowered (Com- mission Regulation No. 2837/92). December 1. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was raised (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3480/92). December 1. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in South Africa was raised (Com- mission Regulation No. 3481/92). December 7. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was raised (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3532/92). December 14. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was lowered (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3608/92). December 18. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was lowered (Commis- sion Regulation No. 3677/92). 3. Elimination January 16. Countervailing charge on apples orig- inating in Hungary was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 97/92). January 17. Countervailing charge on fresh tan- gerines originating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 111/92). February 4. Countervailing charge on certain wines originating in and coming from certain third countries was waived (Commission Regulation No. 333/88). February 10. Countervailing charge was elimi- nated and preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of fresh sweet oranges orig- inating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 316/92). February 13. Countervailing charge was elimi- nated and preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of fresh tangerines originat- ing in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 353/92). March 18. Countervailing charge was eliminated and preferential customs duty was re-established on fresh sweet oranges originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 677/92). March 18. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 678/92). March 23. Countervailing charge on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 720/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 583 April 9. Countervailing charge was eliminated and preferential customs duty was re-established on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Com- mission Regulation No. 911/92). May 5. Countervailing charge was eliminated and preferential customs duty was re-established on im- ports of tomatoes originating in Turkey (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1153/92). May 6. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Morocco was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1174/92). May 19. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1273/92). May 19. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1274/92). May 20. Countervailing charge on cucumbers originating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1285/92). July 1. Countervailing charge was eliminated and preferential customs duty was re-established on im- ports of cherries originating in Turkey (Commission Regulation No. 1795/92). July 14. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 1945/92). July 17. Countervailing charge on cherries orig- inating in Romania was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2002/92). July 22. Countervailing charge on cherries orig- inating in Bulgaria was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2038/92). July 22. Countervailing charge on cherries orig- inating in the former Czech and Slovak Federal Re- public was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2039/92). July 29. Countervailing charge on cucumbers originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2155/92). August 21. Countervailing charge on tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2440/92). September 3. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2578/92). September 3. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2579/92). September 9. Countervailing charge on table grapes originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2626/92). September 14. Countervailing charge on table grapes originating in Turkey was eliminated (Com- mission Regulation No. 2663/92). October 5. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Argentina was eliminated (Commis- sion Regulation No. 2902/92). October 5. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Uruguay was eliminated (Commission Regulation No. 2903/92). Community Tariff Quotas 1. Establishment February 3. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain products originating in the former Yugoslavia (Council Regulation No. 547/92). February 27. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural and industrial prod- ucts originating in the former Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, Hungary, and Poland (Council Regulation No. 521/92). June 30. Community tariff quota was established for newsprint (Council Regulation No. 1866/92). June 30. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain industrial products (Council Reg- ulation Nos. 1867/92 and 1868/92). July 10. Community tariff quotas were established for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the ACP States (Council Regulation No. 1929/92). July 13. Community tariff quotas were established for rum, tafia, and arrack originating in the overseas countries and territories associated with the EC (Council Regulation No. 2111/92). July 13. Community tariff quota was established for apricot pulp originating in Turkey (Council Reg- ulation No. 1949/92). July 13. Community tariff quotas were established for heifers and cows, other than those intended for slaughter, of certain mountain breeds (Council Reg- ulation No. 1950/92). August 3. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for herring, fresh or chilled, originating in Sweden (Council Regulation No. 2282/92). October 23. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural products originating in the ACP States (Commission Regulation Nos. 3060/92 and 3061/92). November 13. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain melons originating in Israel (Coun- cil Regulation No. 3340/92). November 13. Community tariff quotas were es- tablished for fresh-cut flowers and flower buds orig- inating in Cyprus, Israel, Jordan, and Morocco (Council Regulation No. 3341/92). November 23. Community tariff quotas were es- tablished for high-quality fresh, chilled, or frozen meat falling within CN Codes 0201 and 0202 and for products falling within CN Codes 0206-10-95 and 0206-29-91 (Council Regulation No. 3391/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 584 APPENDIX November 23. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for frozen beef falling within CN Code 0202 and products falling within CN Code 0206-29-91 (Council Regulation No. 3392/92). November 23. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for frozen buffalo meat falling within CN Code 0202-30-90 (Council Regulation No. 3393/92). November 23. Community tariff quotas were es- tablished for frozen, thin skirts of bovine animals falling within CN Code 0206-29-21 (Council Regula- tion No. 3394/92). November 23. Community tariff quotas were es- tablished for certain agricultural and chemical prod- ucts (Council Regulation No. 3439/92). December 7. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain fish and fish products originating in the Faroe Islands (Council Regulation No. 3721/92). December 14. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain handmade products (Council Reg- ulation No. 3722/92). December 14. Community tariff quota was estab- lished for certain handwoven fabrics, pile, and che- nille (Council Regulation No. 3723/92). December 17. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain fruits and fruit juices (Council Reg- ulation No. 3905/92). December 17. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural and industrial prod- ucts (Council Regulation Nos. 3913/92 and 3914/92). December 19. Community tariff quotas were estab- lished for certain agricultural and industrial prod- ucts bound under the GATT (Council Regulation No. 3915/92). Common Customs Tariffs 1. Application January 10. Common customs tariff was applied to fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 65/92). January 23. Common customs tariff was applied to multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Is- rael (Commission Regulation No. 154/92). February 5. Common customs tariff was applied to fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 278/92). February 28. Common customs tariff was applied to multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Is- rael (Commission Regulation No. 510/92). February 28. Common customs tariff was applied to small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Com- mission Regulation No. 511/92). March 27. Common customs tariff was applied to fresh lemons originating in Israel (Commission Reg- ulation No. 767/92). May 15. Common customs tariff was applied to multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1255/92). May 15. Common customs tariff was applied to small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1256/92). May 15. Common customs tariff was applied to uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1257/92). November 26. Common customs tariff was applied to uniflorous (standard) carnations originating in Is- rael (Commission Regulation No. 3406/92). November 26. Common customs tariff was applied to multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Is- rael (Commission Regulation No. 3407/92). November 30. Common customs tariff was applied to multiflorous (spray) carnations originating in Mo- rocco (Commission Regulation No. 3465/92). November 30. Common customs tariff was applied to small-flowered roses originating in Israel (Com- mission Regulation No. 3466/92). November 30. Common customs tariff was applied to large-flowered roses originating in Israel (Com- mission Regulation No. 3467/92). December 2. Common customs tariff was applied to fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Commission Regulation No. 3494/92). 2. Repeal or Suspension January 21. Common customs tariff on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was repealed (Com- mission Regulation No. 134/92). May 26. Common customs tariffs on certain agri- cultural products were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No 1431/92). June 5. Common customs tariffs on certain indus- trial products were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 1626/92). June 5. Common customs tariffs on certain indus- trial products (in the chemical and related sectors) were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 1627/92). June 15. Common customs tariffs on certain in- dustrial products were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 1605/92). June 15. Common customs tariffs on imports into the Canary Islands of certain tobaccos falling within CN Codes 2402 and 2403 were suspended tem- porarily (Council Regulation No. 1606/92). November 23. Common customs tariffs on imports of certain fishery products into the Canary Islands were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 3621/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 585 December 14. Common customs tariffs on a num- ber of agricultural products were suspended tem- porarily (Council Regulation No. 3638/92). December 14. Common customs tariffs on certain industrial products (in the chemical and related sec- tors) were suspended temporarily (Council Regula- tion No. 3639/92). December 14. Common customs tariffs on a num- ber of products intended for the construction, main- tenance, and repair of aircraft were suspended tem- porarily (Council Regulation No. 3640/92). December 14. Common customs tariffs on certain industrial products (in the microelectronics and re- lated sectors) were suspended temporarily (Council Regulation No. 3681/92). Preferential Tariff Arrangements 1. Elimination (reintroduction of customs duties) February 28. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401, 6402, 6404 and 6405-90-10) originating in Thailand to which pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 513/92). February 28. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (Order No. 40.0610) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 514/92). March 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (Order No. 42.1590) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Com- mission Regulation No. 673/92). March 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 6403) originating in Thailand to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 719/92). March 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401, 6402, and 6403) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 778/92). March 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 37 (Order No. 40.0370) originating in Pakistan to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 779/92). April 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating in Bulgaria to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 876/92). April 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 37 (Order No. 40.03370) originat- ing in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 877/92). April 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 156 (Order No. 42.1560) originat- ing in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 910/92). April 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 3 (Order No. 40.0033) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1016/92). April 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 26 (Order No. 40.0260) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1017/92). April 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 8257, 8258, and 8259) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1018/92). April 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3102-80-00) orig- inating in Bulgaria to which preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1047/92). April 30. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1112/92). May 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 9,23, and 39 (Order Nos. 40.0090, 40.0230, and 40.0390) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commis- sion Regulation No. 1164/92). May 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Categories 1, 9, and 32 (Order Nos. 40.0010, 40.0090, and 40.0320) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Com- mission Regulation No. 1165/92). May 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1166/92). May 5. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 39 (Order No. 40.0390) originating in Pakistan to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1167/92). May 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8712-00) originat- ing in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission No. 1193/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 6401 and 6402) originating in the Philippines to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1220/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 10.0580 ex 4203) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 APPENDIX originating in India to which preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1221/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 6913) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1222/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9503) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1223/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) orig- inating in Thailand to which preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1224/92). May 12. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category No. 36 (Order No. 40.0360) originat- ing in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1225/92). May 20. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 8527, 8528, and 8529) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1297/92). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Category 4 (Order No. 40.0040) originating in In- donesia to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1470/92). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 18 (Order No. 40.0180) originating in Pakistan to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Council Regulation No. 1471/92). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 8 (Order No. 40.0080) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1472/92). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 22 (Order No. 40.0220) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1473/92). June 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 69 and 91 (Order Nos. 40.0690 and 40.0910) originating in China to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1474/92). June 16. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2930-90-10) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 1548/92). June 16. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8528) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1549/92). June 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3904) originating in Mexico to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1572/92). June 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) orig- inating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff ar- rangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1573/92). June 19. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 6403) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1574/92). June 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2929-90-00) orig- inating in Brazil to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 1634/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 6 and 26 (Order Nos. 40.0060 and 40.0260) originating in Pakistan to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1873/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 7 (Order No. 40.0070) originating in Brazil to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1874/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Category 23 (Order No. 40.0230) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1875/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 75 (Order No. 40.0750) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1876/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Categories 19, 68, 74, and 83 (Order Nos. 40.0190, 40.0680, 40.0740 and 40.0830) originating in Thailand to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1877/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Categories 109,112, and 116 (Order Nos. 40.1090, 40.1120, and 42.1610) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1878/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Categories 72, 88, and 97 (Order Nos. 40.0720, 40.0880, and 40.0970) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1879/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on prod- ucts (falling within CN Code 3923-21-00) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 1880/92). July 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on Prod- uct Categories 58, 59, and 66 (Order Nos. 40.0580, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 587 40.0590, and 40.0660) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 1881/92). July 14. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 2937-21-00 and 2937-29-10) originating in China to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 1959/92). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes ex 9101 and ex 9102) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2124/92). July 24. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 3802-10-00) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 2125/92). August 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 2941-40-00) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 2290/92). August 4. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 4302-30-10 and 4303) originating in Hong Kong to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2291/92). August 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 7318-15-81) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 2339/92). August 6. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9105) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2340/92). August 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 26 and 28 (Order Nos. 40.0260 and 40.0280) originating in India to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2351/92). August 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 36 (Order No. 40.0360) originating in Bulgaria to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2352/92). August 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 39 (Order No. 40.0390) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2353/92). August 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 75 (Order No. 40.0750) originating in Thailand to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2354/92). August 7. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 67 and 76 (Order Nos. 40.0670 and 40.0760) originating in Pakistan to which prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 2355/92). August 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 35 (Order No. 40.0350) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2427/92). August 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 65 (Order No. 40.0650) originating in Brazil to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2428/92). August 18. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 24 (Order No. 40.0240) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 2429/92). September 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code ex 2914-21-00) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 2607/92). September 8. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 9405-30-30 and 9505) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2608/92). September 25. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 9103) originat- ing in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2813/92). October 9. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 1922-41-00) orig- inating in Indonesia and the Republic of Korea to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 2950/92). October 9. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 118 (Order No. 42.1180) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements were applied (Commission Regulation No. 2951/92). October 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 603-10-53) originat- ing in Colombia to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 3059/92). October 23. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Codes 3904-10-00, 3904-21-00, and 3904-22-00) originating in Hungary to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3065/92). October 26. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 12 (Order No. 40.0120) originating in Mexico to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3071/92). October 26. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 65 and 72 (Order Nos. 40.0650 and 40.0720) originating in the Republic of Korea to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3072/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 588 APPENDIX October 26. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 14, 16, 27, and 29 (Order Nos. 40.0140, 40.0160, 40.04270, and 40.0290) originating in Thailand to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3073/92). October 26. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 72, 76, and 78 (Order Nos. 40.0720, 40.0760, and 40.0780) originating in Thai- land to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 3074/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 72 (Order No. 40.0720) originating in Brazil to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3086/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 91 (Order No. 40.0910) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3087/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 97 (Order No. 40.0970) originating in the Philippines to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 3088/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 19,27, and 72 (Order Nos. 40.0190, 40.0270, and 40.0720) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3089/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 24, 33, 41, and 97 (Order Nos. 40.0240, 40.0330, 40.0410, and 40.0970) originat- ing in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 3090/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 22 and 78 (Order Nos. 40.0220 and 40.0780) originating in Pakistan to which prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3091/92). October 27. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 62,84, and 96 (Order Nos. 40.0620, 40.06840, and 40.0960) originating in China to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3092/92). October 29. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 16 and 17 (Order Nos. 40.0160 and 40.0740) originating in India to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3144/92). October 29. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 18,58, and 59 (Order Nos. 40.0180, 40.0580, and 40.0590) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3145/92). October 29. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 22 (Order No. 40.0220) originating in Indonesia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3146/92). October 29. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 20 (Order No. 40.0200) originating in Malaysia to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3147/92). October 29. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 9 (Order No. 40.0090) originating in Sri Lanka to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3832/92). November 17. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 8712-00) orig- inating in Indonesia and Thailand to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3325/92). December 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 40 (Order No. 40.0400) originating in India to which preferential tariff arrangements ap- plied (Commission Regulation No. 3488/92). December 1. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 77 (Order No. 40.0770) originating in Thailand to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3489/92). December 3. Customs duties were reintroduced on products (falling within CN Code 4820-50-00) orig- inating in China to which preferential tariff arrange- ments applied (Commission Regulation No. 3514/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 39 (Order No. 40.0390) originating in Bulgaria to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3625/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 98 (Order No. 40.0980) originat- ing in the Republic of Korea to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3626/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 65 and 75 (Order Nos. 40.0650 and 40.0750) originating in China to which preferen- tial tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3627/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Category 84 (Order No. 40.0840) originat- ing in India to which preferential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3628/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 13 and 15 (Order Nos. 40.0130 and 40.0150) originating in Indonesia to which pref- erential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Regulation No. 3629/92). December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 7 and 9 (Order Nos. 40.0070 and 40.0090) originating in Malaysia to which prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3630/92). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 589 December 15. Customs duties were reintroduced on Product Categories 15 and 33 (Order Nos. 40.0150 and 40.0330) originating in Thailand to which prefer- ential tariff arrangements applied (Commission Reg- ulation No. 3631/92). Preferential Customs Duties 1. Re-establishment January 14. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 75/92). February 19. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 399/92). April 1. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of single-flower (standard) carnations originating in Israel (Commission Regula- tion No. 823/92). April 22. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of multiflorous (spray) carna- tions originating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 998/92). May 7. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of small-flowered roses orig- inating in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 1184/92). December 4. Preferential customs duty was re- established on imports of small-flower roses originat- ing in Israel (Commission Regulation No. 3524/92). Import Surveillance June 25. The United Kingdom was authorized to extend surveillance within the EC on bananas orig- inating in certain third countries (Commission Deci- sion No. 92/338/EEC). June 30, Certain member countries were autho- rized to apply surveillance within the EC to certain imports originating in third countries (Commission Decision No. 92/372/EEC). July 7. Retrospective EC surveillance was intro- duced on imports of iron and steel products covered by the ECSC Treaty and originating in third coun- tries (Commission Decision No. 1856/92/ECSC). December 22. Automatic prior EC surveillance was introduced on imports of certain iron and steel products covered by the ECSC Treaty and originat- ing in nonmember countries (Commission Recom- mendation No. 3772/92/ECSC). December 22. Retrospective EC surveillance was introduced on imports of iron and steel products covered by the ECSC Treaty and originating in third countries (Commission Decision No. 3773 /'92 / ECSC). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 596. 590 A f n a h g i s t n a A l n a b i a A l e g i r a A o g n l a A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b A r n e g i t a n m A r n e i a A r a b u A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a A e z r a b j i n a T e h B a h a m s a B h a r a i n B g n a l s e d a h B a r o d a b s B e l a r u s B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g B e i l e z B n e i n B u h t n a B o i l v i a B o t s w a n a B r z a l i B u l a g i r a B u r k i a n F s a o A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article V I II status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange ra te determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (/) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French f ranc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (/') adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating O'l'i) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 3. More than one ra te for imports 4. More than one ra te for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions^ 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions /6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds _ _ _ _ • • — • • • _• • _ _ _ _ _• • _ _ _ • _ _ _ _ __ • • _ _ • _ _ _ • _ _ • • _ _ • • _ • • • • • • • f £ • • • • • • t £ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — _ _ • — _ • •_ — - _ • _ • •_ • • • 0 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 • • • • — • — _ _ _ _ • _ • • • • • • _ _ _ • _ • _• • ^ ^• — • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — _ • _ • • • _ _ _ • • • * • _ _ _ __ • • • • • _ • _ _ _ • _ _ __ • — _ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 591 B u r d n u i C a m d o b i a C a m e r n o o C a d a n a C e p a V e r e d C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . C d a h C h l i e C h i a n C o o l m b i a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C o t e d l ' o v r i e C r a o i t a C p y r u s C h c e z R b u p e i l c D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i a c n i D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E s t n o i a E t h i p o i a F i j i n F i l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G o e r g i a G e r m y n a G a n a h ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first For key and footnotes, see page 596. 592 G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G u i a e n - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y I e c l d n a I d n i a I s e n o d n i a r I n a , s I l a m i c R o p e . f r I q a r I e l d n a r s I e a l t I a l y a J m a i a c n a p a J J o r n a d K h k a z a s t n a K a y n e K i r i a b i t K o r a e A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article V I II s ta tus 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange ra te determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French f ranc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 3. More than one ra te for imports 4. More than one ra te for exports 5. Import rate(s) d ifferent from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions ' F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Require- ment for Export Proceeds • _ • _ _• • • • _ • _ • _ _ • _ • • • _ _ _ • • _ • _• • _ _ _ _ _ _ • _ • _• • _ • _ _ _• • • __ • • • • • £ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • _ • • _ • _ • _ • _ • • _• — • — • —_ • • _ • — _ — •_ — _• • • • _ _ • _ _• — • _- — __ 0 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 • • • • • • • • • • • • o • • • D • • • • • • • £ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — — • • — — • _ _ _ - _• — • • _ _ _ _ • _• • _ - _• • • • • • • _ _ _ • _ •_ • • • • • • 0 0 593 K u w a t i K y r s z y g t n a L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . L a t v i a L n o n a b e L s e o h o t L i e b i r a L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y L t i n a u h i a M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i M a l y a s i a M a l d i s e v M a i l M a t l a M a s r a h l l s I l d n a s M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c F d e . S t a t s e o f M i c r s e n o i a M o l a v o d M o g n o i l a M o r o c c o M a z o m b i e u q M n a y m a r N a m i b i a N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first t 0 9 O + t 0 9 9 9 O 0 0 41 D 0 0 £ * 0 0 ^ 0 ^ ^ 0 0 + D 0 0 0 _ _ For key and footnotes, see page 596. 594 P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e G w u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P l d n a o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r d a n e i s e n S n a M a i r o n S o a T o m e d n a P i r c n i e p S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e k a v o S l R b u p e i l c n e v o S l i a o o S l m n o s I l d n a s A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article V I II status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange ra te determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French f r anc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 3. More than one ra te for imports 4. More than one ra te for exports 5. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for cur- rent transactions 2. Restrictions on payments for capi- tal transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repa tr ia t ion Require- ment for Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • — — • • • • • • — • — • • • — — — — • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • — • • — • — • • — — • • — • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • — Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 _ • • _ _ • • _ — • — — — — • • __ • _ • _ • • _ • _ • _ _ • • __ _ • • _ _ • • _ _ _ _ _ _ __ • _ _ _ _ • _ _ • • • f • • • • • • • 0 £ • • • • • 6 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • _ _ • •_ — _ - • • _ • — _ _ — • - - _ _ _ • _ .— • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 595 o S m a i l a u o S t h A i r f a c a p S i n S i r L a k n a n a d u S u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e S w t i e z l r d n a y S i r n a A r b a R b u p e i l c T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a T o g o T a g n o T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a T u r y e k T u r k m n e i s t n a U a d n a g U k r a i e n U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m U n t i d e S t a t s e U r y a u g u U k e b z i s t n a V a u n a t u V e u z e n e l a V i e t N a m W s e t e r S n a m a o R b u p e i l c o f Y e m n e Z a r i e Z a m b i a Z i m b a b w e ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1TThe listing includes the nonmetropolitan territory of Hong Kong, for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Ex- change practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1992. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Ex- change arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with one group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, deutsche mark, Indian rupee, Italian lira, South African rand, or Russian ruble. Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. 6Resident-owned funds. 596 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ACP-EC ACU AFTA AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BTN CACM CAP CARICOM CEEAC CEPGL CET CMA CMEA COCOM EC ECCB ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEC EFTA EMS EPZ ERM EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBEC ICO LAIA LIBOR MERCOSUR MFA MFN MTN NATO OECD OECS OGL PTA SACU SPARTECA UAPTA UDEAC LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention Asian Clearing Union ASEAN Free Trade Area (see ASEAN, below) Asian Monetary Unit Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Brussels Tariff Nomenclature Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Economic Community of Central African States Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common External Tariff (of CARICOM) Common Monetary Area Council for Mutual Economic Assistance Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls European Community Eastern Caribbean Central Bank Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Economic Community European Free Trade Association European Monetary System Export processing zone Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Economic Cooperation International Coffee Organization Latin American Integration Association London interbank offered rate Southern Cone Common Market Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) North Atlantic Treaty Organization Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Open general license Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States Southern African Customs Union South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement Unit of account of the PTA Central African Customs and Economic Union 597 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* WAEC WAMU WAUA West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union West African Unit of Account This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 