 S I X T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1965 This page intentionally left blank I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY FUND Sixteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1965 Washington, D. C. This page intentionally left blank Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 7, 1965 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Sixteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, wh ich has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On beha lf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, M PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V This page intentionally left blank CONTENTS PART I I. Introductory Note II. Economic Background III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions and Discrimination Bilateral Payments Agreements Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits Measures Affec t ing Capital IV. Regional Arrangements V. Restrictions of New Member Countries PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghan is tan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil British Guiana Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central A f r ican Republic Ceylon Chad vii Page 1 2 3 3 4 5 5 6 7 10 15 21 25 34 46 49 56 63 65 80 83 86 90 97 102 103 107 114 CONTENTS Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo (Brazzav i l le) Congo, Democratic Republic of Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France Gabon Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea viii 118 127 135 143 147 153 156 160 165 172 174 178 181 184 190 203 208 212 220 227 232 237 238 240 245 250 258 269 275 280 284 288 296 300 305 312 316 319 Kuwait Laos Lebanon Liberia Libya Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Mali Mauritania Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rhodesia Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Somalia South Africa Spain Sudan Surinam Sweden Switzerland CONTENTS • ix 324 329 333 336 337 341 345 346 352 357 361 363 372 377 383 385 391 394 399 405 410 418 420 423 425 428 435 439 443 444 448 452 456 466 473 477 480 487 CONTENTS Syrian A rab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United A rab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia 491 497 502 505 509 517 524 532 536 542 555 558 562 573 576 584 591 X P A RT I This page intentionally left blank I. Introductory Note The app l ica t ion of res tr ic t ions on trade and paymen ts by member countries of the Fund dur ing the period under review showed, as in previous periods, wide variations in intensity and method. The changes that took place in restrictive systems were largely a reflection of sh if ts in the balance of payments positions and outlook of member countries. The country surveys in Part II show that these changes were numerous. Several countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States, took steps to moderate capital outflows. Countries experiencing chronic inf la t ion and hence pressure on their payments positions made fu r ther adjustments in their exchange rate structures, intensified restrictions, or introduced new restrictive devices. These measures, unless accompanied by internal steps to stem inflation, could not be expected to correct the imba lance, and in some countries they complicated the task of restoring stability. Where stabilization programs were introduced along with more realistic exchange rates, some s imp l i f ica t ion and l ibera l iza- tion of restrictions were found possible. In countries where time was needed to reduce inflationary pressures, a policy of allowing exchange rates to fluctuate for the time being tended to m in im ize the decline in exchange reserves. The range of restrictive devices applied by some countries appears to have widened in recent years. The use of advance import deposit requirements has spread, and more countries are applying surcharges to imports when in balance of payments difficulties. In some countries these techniques have been introduced as an alternative to other devices but in many others they have supplemented restrictions already in force. In most instances they have been designed to serve as temporary measures and have been reduced or eliminated as the balance of payments has improved. But in many countries restrictive measures have lost their temporary cha rac ter and the task of correcting the payments position has thereby been made much more d iff icu l t. In contrast, a number of member countries whose restrictive systems have been progressively liberalized in recent years have relied on internal measures to meet temporary balance of payments difficulties rather than resort to restrictions. By making use of the Fund's resources several member countries have been able to maintain or extend their l ibera l iza t ion policies. In the period under review, 2 members, Nicara- gua and Costa Rica, both of which had eliminated restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions (and on capital movements as w e l l ), accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. This brings to 26 the number of Fund members that have accepted the obligations 1 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of Article VIII.1 These countries accounted for about 70 per cent of total world exports in 1964. II. Economic Background During 1964 the general climate of prosperity that had characterized 1963 continued to prevail in the industrial countries although there were signs in the second ha lf of the year that the forces of expansion were becoming less powerful, particularly on the continent of Europe. Prices of primary commodities, which had risen substantially during 1963, continued to rise in the early months of 1964 and for the year as a whole averaged about 5 per cent above 1963. At this level, they were higher than they had been in any of the eight preceding years. The value of world exports was some 12 per cent higher than in 1963, the progress being shared about equally by manufac tur ing and primary producing countries. The rate of growth of world trade was, however, slowing down during the course of the year, in part reflecting the measures taken by some countries to restrain over-all demand. As a consequence of these general conditions, the payments positions of the primary producing countries were, on the whole, relatively favorable. During the first ha lf of 1964, the reserves of these countries as a group continued to rise. During the second half of the year, however, the rise appeared to be leveling o f f, as their imports were being adjusted to a higher level of export receipts and the rise in these receipts was slowing down. By the end of the year, there were signs of increasing balance of payments strains in some countries in this group. Payments imbalances in the manufac tur ing countries were consider- ably larger than they had been for some time. At the beginning of 1964, the most serious problem was a substantial deficit in Italy's balance of payments which evoked large assistance from other countries and the Fund. A f ter the first quarter, responding to internal measures introduced earlier, the deficit was replaced by a surplus, which was very large during the second ha lf of the year. In general, the balance of payments positions of the countries in Continental Europe, and specifically the members of the European Common Market, strength- ened in the course of the year as restrictive financial policies led to an improvement of current account positions and an acceleration of the 1 These countries are Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Mexico, Nether- lands, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States, 2 ECONOMIC BACKGROUND inflow of capital, Germany being the only ma jor exception to this general pattern. The United Kingdom, whose balance of payments had deteriorated during the first three quarters of the year, experienced a severe crisis in the fourth quarter, which led to massive international support for sterling. The Government at that time introduced internal measures and a temporary surcharge of 15 per cent on most imports in an effort to deal with the payments imbalance. In April 1965, the United Kingdom took a fur ther set of measures with the aim of restor- ing balance in its international accounts. The balance of payments of the United States also deteriorated toward the end of the year as a result of a sharp increase in outflows of capital. As part of the measures to deal with this situation, the Interest Equalization Tax was introduced in September 1964, and the President, in connection with his balance of payments message of February 10,1965, requested voluntary curbs on foreign loans and investments by bankers and businessmen. These policies apparently had some success in their initial stages in reducing the net capital outflow. The past year saw a number of international institutional develop- ments of importance to both developed and developing countries. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development met in Geneva from March 23 to June 16, 1964, and on December 30 the United Nations General Assembly took action which established the Conference on a permanent basis. Under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade (GATT ), the Kennedy Round of trade negotiations opened on May 4, 1964. In December 1964, the process of confrontation and justification of proposed exceptions to the planned general linear tar iff reductions for industrial goods was begun. More recently, pro- posals were accepted in principle for the tabling of offers for agri- cultural products. The CONTRACTING PARTIES to the GATT also reached agreement on the text of a new Chapter dealing with Trade and Development to be added to the General Agreement. On March 31,1965 the Board of Governors of the Fund adopted proposals recommended by the Executive Directors to increase Fund quotas by 25 per cent, together with special increases for 16 countries. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions and Discrimination Among more highly industrialized countries progress was evident during 1964-65 in the removal of remaining restrictions, which have now become largely of a "hard core" or residual nature. Quantitative restrictions were also removed from a number of commodities by some 3 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS countries (e.g., Austria, Denmark, France, Japan, Pakistan, and South A f r i c a ). The elimination of quantitative restrictions and the reduction of tar iffs and fiscal charges were in some instances undertaken to restrain internal upward price movements caused by domestic cost and demand factors. In addition, the "industrial countries have been reducing or eliminating restrictions on imports of products originating in under- developed countries, in compliance with the Action Program of the GATT. However, some countries took steps to impose or extend controls over cotton textile imports in accordance with the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement. Among some less developed countries there was a tendency toward increased restrictions, both to deal with balance of payments difficulties and to protect domestic industries. While some decided to rely only on increasing the customs tariffs, others, in addition, intensified quanti- tative restrictions on imports as well as on current invisibles and capital transactions. Despite a relatively good year for the primary producers taken as a group, few countries relaxed quantitative restrictions on imports. Payments for invisibles were liberalized in a number of countries (e.g., Austria, Greece, Norway, and Spa in). In other countries (e.g., Ceylon, Morocco, Sudan, and Viet-Nam) restrictions on payments for invisibles were intensified. There was some reduction of import discrimination in the period under review, apart from that associated with regional arrangements (summarized below). Algeria and Morocco reduced preferences previ- ously given to other members of the French Franc Area. Australia, the Benelux countries, and the Malagasy Republic disinvoked Article XXXV of the GATT in relation to Japan, thus establishing GATT relations between themselves and Japan. Import discrimination was reduced through the renegotiation by a few countries of trade agree- ments with Japan. The United Kingdom eliminated some minor instances of remaining discrimination against products from the dollar area; it also, for certain manufactured products, extended liberal- ized treatment for the first time to Eastern European countries. Bilateral Payments Agreements The position with respect to bilateral payments agreements did not change much over the past year, and discriminatory practices continued to result from bilateral arrangements that involved the use of exchange restrictions. There was progress in the elimination of payments agree- ments maintained by industrial countries, and most of the agreements still maintained by them were with countries that were not members of 4 MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES the Fund. However, the number of payments agreements maintained by developing countries increased. This was true particularly of the newly independent countries in A f r ica, some of which now settle a considerable part of their international trade through bilateral accounts. A tendency has evolved among developing countries to conclude payments agreements among themselves, even though the existing amount of trade involved may be small. Some developing countries have used bilateral payments arrange- ments as a technique for obtaining wider markets for their products and for obtaining capital inflows through the bilateral accounts. In some instances, primarily where the demand for their products in their traditional markets was inelastic, such measures have obtained the desired objective. However, where there has been only a limited demand in their own market for the goods available f rom bilateral partners, the expansion of exports has had to be financed by extending credits. In such situations these countries have been forced to introduce or intensify discriminatory import and exchange practices in order to obtain proceeds for their exports. Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates In general, there was no marked change in the degree of reliance placed on multiple currency practices by Fund members. The exchange systems in Brazil and Venezuela were simplified considerably and those in Burundi, Korea, and Pakistan showed improvement. However, some systems that were already complex, such as those of Indonesia and Uruguay, became more so. The Philippines exempted all its minor exports from the general requirement that 20 per cent of export proceeds be surrendered at the par value rather than in the free market. Viet- Nam depreciated some of its export rates. As regards fluctuating exchange rate systems, there was a substantial depreciation of the rates in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, and Uruguay. Some systems designed to operate with a single fluctuating rate with freedom of trade and payments were changed to systems with two or more effective rates; in others, quantitative restrictions and discrimina- tion were reintroduced. Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits Increased use of import surcharges continued. Argentina, Chile, and Uruguay each revised its system; Peru increased surcharges in February and March 1964, but in August it incorporated these rates in a new tariff schedule which simplified the system. The United Kingdom in October 1964, as one of a series of measures to deal with its balance of 5 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS payments difficulties, imposed a temporary surcharge of 15 per cent on all imports (except for food and feeding stuffs, unmanufac tured tobacco, fue l, and basic raw materials) f rom all sources. In April 1965, the surcharge was reduced to 10 per cent. On February 17, 1965 the Indian Government announced a special 10 per cent duty on all but the most essential imports. Frequent changes were made in the requirements for advance import deposits, without any definite trend being established. Such changes were made several times in Brazil and in Chile, while in Turkey the scope of the system was extended. Measures Affecting Capital On the whole, restrictions imposed by European countries on outward capital transfers were further relaxed in 1964, and some countries took measures in the tax, monetary, or exchange fields to slow down the rate of inflow of capital from abroad. The Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) adopted several measures which marked fu r ther steps toward the liberalization of capital movements. New items were added to the Code of Liberaliza- tion of Capital Movements (in force since 1959), and the liberalization of some items was extended. Loans and credits linked with commercial transactions were liberalized. In most OECD countries, direct invest- ment (both incoming and outgoing) was completely, or almost completely, liberalized or was treated liberally in practice. The volume and variety of international investment indicated that advantage was taken of this freedom on a substantial scale in 1964-65. Portfolio investment, other than new issues of securities, also received, on the whole, liberal treatment. On the other hand, in order to reconcile national monetary policy with balance of payments objectives, credit operations of a banking character, especially short-term and medium- term loans, were still subjected to restrictions in some of these countries. As part of a general program to correct the balance of payments position introduced at the time of the budget, the U.K. Government modified certain exchange control measures affecting the capital accounts. Regulations governing the investment currency market were changed in a number of ways which were expected to channel some of the funds previously passing through this market in such a way as to benefit the official reserves. Certain other changes were made in exchange control procedures. These included making slightly more stringent the criteria for the use of official exchange for direct invest- ment outside the Sterling Area, and a strengthening of the controls, particularly on travel expenditure, to prevent evasion of the restrictions on capital movements. 6 REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS On September 2, 1964 the U.S. Interest Equalization Tax Act became law, its provisions, with certain exceptions, being retroactive to July 19, 1963. Under the law, U.S. purchasers of foreign stocks and debt obli- gations with a period remaining to maturity of three years or more are subject to tax designed to raise the cost to foreign borrowers by the equivalent of approximately 1 per cent per annum. Direct investments, investments in less developed countries, and purchases f rom other U.S. holders are exempted. In addition, purchases of original or new Canadian issues are exempt under authority granted to the President to exempt purchases if the application of the tax would have such conse- quences for a foreign country as to imperil the stability of the international monetary system. The tax appears to have stimulated greater new issue activity in Europe and also a substantial increase in U.S. bank loans to foreigners. In his balance of payments message on February 10, 1965, the President announced the extension of the tax to bank loans with a maturity of one year or more made to residents of countries other than the developing countries. The tax was also extended to nonbank lending of one to three years' maturity and is now to expire at the end of 1967. U.S. purchases up to $100 million each year of new securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Japan were exempted f rom the tax. Several developing countries (e.g., Algeria, Ceylon, Ghana, Morocco, Nigeria, and Sudan) tightened restrictions on outward capital transfers, mainly on those by residents; Argentina reintroduced such restrictions. IV. Regional Arrangements The six member countries of the European Economic Community (EEC) 2 continued to make progress toward establishing a customs union and an economic union. The machinery for monetary cooperation was elaborated with the establishment in April 1964 of the Council of Central Bank Governors of the EEC countries. A f ter certain steps toward a common agricultural policy were taken during the year, the Community reached agreement on December 15, 1964 on common grain prices to be applied no later than July 1, 1967. On January 1, 1965, ta r i f fs on intraregional trade in industrial products were reduced by a fur ther 10 per cent, to 30 per cent of their 1957 level; although many agricultural commodities are subject to Common Agricultural Policy levies, internal ta r i f fs on trade in some agricultural products were reduced to 50 per cent, and on others to 45 per cent, of their original 2 Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 7 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS levels. These reductions were also applied to the A f r ican States associated with the Community and the Malagasy Republic and, for industrial products, to Greece. A new "acceleration program" has been proposed by the EEC Commission, to make the common external tariff fully effective by July 1, 1967 and to eliminate all internal duties on industrial products in two steps by that date; the customs union would thus be established two and a half years ahead of the schedule set out in the Treaty of Rome. No decision has yet been taken to adopt this proposal. On June 1, 1964, the Second Convention of Association between the EEC and the A f r ican States and Malagasy came into force. A number of the products of the associated countries then entered the member states of the Community duty-free, and the reduced duties of the common external tariff came into operation for these products when imported from third countries. Association Agreements became effective also with the Netherlands Antilles (October 1, 1964) and with Turkey (December 1, 1964), while a three-year trade agreement with Israel was signed in June. The form of Turkey's association is similar to that of Greece and envisages eventual membership in the Community; a customs union is to be achieved in three stages. The trade agreement with Israel contains EEC commitments with respect to import duties and quantitative restrictions on selected products and an Israeli declaration of intention to increase imports from the Community. On March 9, 1965, the EEC and Lebanon initialed a trade and technical cooperation agreement, the first trade agreement negotiated by the EEC that includes technical assistance. On December 31, 1964, the member countries of the European Free Trade Association3 reduced their intraregional ta r i f fs on industrial products from 40 per cent to 30 per cent of their 1960 levels. Finland, as an associate member, made the 10 per cent reduction on March 1, 1965. Austria reduced duties on a wide range of consumer goods on October 1, 1964, three months ahead of schedule. During the year, the scope of the tariff reduction process was extended to certain agricultural and fish products that previously had not been subject to that process. Further progress was made in dismantling quantitative restrictions on industrial products from other member countries; such liberalization measures were generally applied also to most nonmember countries. The five members of the Central American Common Market took fur ther steps toward integration of their economies. The Third Protocol to the Central American Agreement on the Equalization of Import "Austria, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and United King- dom. Finland is an associate member. 8 REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS Duties and Charges, wh ich was signed on July 31, 1962 by Costa R ica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and N icaragua, entered into fo rce for Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Honduras on April 29, 1964, a f t er these three countries had deposited their respective instruments of ratification. The ratifications by El Salvador and N icaragua were deposited subsequently, in December 1964 and March 1965. This protocol made the Central American common external t a r i f f, wh ich had up to then been applicable to about 50 per cent of the total number of items in the u n i f o rm Central American ta r i ff nomenc la ture, applicable to almost 96 per cent of the items, encompassing, for most of the countries, 70-80 per cent of imports f rom outside the region. The Fourth Protocol to the Agreement, signed by the same five countries on January 9, 1963, entered into force for Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Gua tema la on October 11, 1964. This protocol modified the u n i f o rm t a r i f fs and' the classification given to some products in the original agreement and subsequent protocols. In February 1964, the presidents of the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N icaragua signed an agreement, wh ich entered into fo rce on March 18, 1964, for the establishment of a Central American Monetary Union. By the end of 1963, the members of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) 4 had individually granted each other some 8,000 duty reductions laid down in national lists. The Treaty of Montevideo (February 18, 1960) also provided for a common list which was to comprise the goods on wh ich all duties, charges, and other restrictions relating to intraregional imports must be eliminated by all members be fo re the 12-year transitional period exp ired; the list is to be negoti- ated in f o ur stages at 3-year intervals and eventually is to cover all intraregional trade. On December 11, 1964, the first part of the common list and the f o u r th set of national lists were agreed. The common list, wh ich was accepted by all members, includes 113 products, accounting for slightly more than 25 per cent of present intraregional trade. The ta r i ff reductions in this list w i ll not be enforced until 1973. The eight national lists agreed at the Conference cover some 250 concessions, wh ich took e f fect on January 1, 1965, compared with some 1,000 concessions negotiated at the previous session. Uruguay did not negotiate a fou r th national list. The Arab Common Market, the establishment of which was agreed in April 1964, came into operation on Janua ry 1, 1965. The agreement was signed by Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, the Syrian A rab Republic, and the United A rab R epub l i c; accession is open to all A rab League States. The 4 Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. 9 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS agreement provides for the abolition of in ternal customs duties on agri- cu l tu ral products and na tu ral resources w i th in 5 years, by tar iff reductions at an annual rate of 20 per cent. In ternal customs duties on indus tr ial products are to be reduced by 10 per cent annua l ly. Provision is also made for the even tual e s tab l i shment of a common ex ternal t a r i f f. V. Restrictions of New Member Countries Since 1960, 35 countries have become members of the International Mone tary Fund. Most of these countries are newly independent states and are in the early stage of economic development. The largest rela- tively homogeneous group are the A f r i c an members of the French Franc Area, wh ich generally have similar, moderately restrictive systems. The association of these countries w i th the EEC has meant an alteration of the preferential t rad ing arrangemen ts that previously existed between them and Metropolitan France and that are being modified and extended to inc lude the other five member states of the Community. In most instances, this extension applies to quan t i ta t ive restrictions as well as to tar iffs. In addition to other relationships, f o ur of these countries are parties to a convention establishing the Equatorial Customs Union and to a protocol regulating economic and customs relations between them and a fifth coun try in the group. Five A f r i c an and f o ur other newly independent countries are members of the Sterling Area, with fa i r ly liberal systems wh ich have changed relatively little since they jo ined the Fund. Some, however, have increased restrictions and ta r i f fs, in part to protect new industries. The rema in ing new members have varying restrictive systems. Several apply relatively severe restrictions, and the position of some of them has deteriorated in the face of domestic and balance of payments d i f f icu l t ies since they became Fund members. As already noted, a number of the newly independent countries have sought to expand and d ivers ify the ir exports and to obtain credits by entering into bilateral payments agreements. O f ten, any benefits achieved have fa i led to compensate for the distortions introduced. Some countries, seeking new sources of revenue, have considered or introduced exchange taxes. Experience in other parts of the world shows the desirability of keeping the exchange system free f rom such devices. Of the 35 new members, 33 have chosen to avail themselves of the transitional arrangements in Article XIV, Section 2, of the Fund Agree- ment ra ther than to accept the obligations of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4; one has not yet made its cho ice. Of all Fund members, old 10 RESTRICTIONS OF NEW MEMBER COUNTRIES and new, a total of 75 are now ava i l ing themselves of the transitional arrangements in Article XIV, Section 2, which authorizes a member, for balance of payments reasons, to maintain and adapt to chang ing cir- cumstances those restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions which were in e f fect when the country became a member of the Fund. A member which is availing itself of the transitional arrangements may not, however, introduce restrictions on the mak ing of payments and t rans fe rs for current international transactions w i thout the approval of the Fund under Article VIII.5 Whether the adoption of a particular exchange restriction would constitute an adaptation to changing circumstances of existing restric- tions or a measure requ i r ing pr ior approval is a matter of judgment to be decided on the fac ts of each case. Consequently, a member contem- plating a change in its restrictive system which appears to raise this problem should consult with the Fund prior to making such changes in order to c la r i fy the situation. The Fund —wh i le adher ing to its objectives —will continue to deal with unders tand ing with members that encounter difficulties in the maintenance or the adoption of payments systems f ree of quantitative restrictions and discrimination. In accordance with the Fund's policies and regulations, its resources, both techn ical and financial, will continue to be put at the disposal of members to help them to overcome obstacles to the maintenance of liberal trade and payments regimes. 5 Both multiple currency practices and discriminatory current arrangements may also be maintained under the provisions of Article XIV, Section 2. However, with respect to multiple currency practices, as explained in Decision No. 237-2 of the Executive Directors (Selected Decisions of the Executive Directors and Selected Documents, Third Issue, Washington, D.C., January 1965, pp. 84-91), rates of exchange are involved and a member has a duty to consult and obtain the approval of the Fund before changing any such practice, whether maintained under Article VIII or as a transitional arrangement under Article XIV. 11 This page intentionally left blank P A RT II This page intentionally left blank Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, ind iv idual surveys of the exchange systems of the mem- ber countries of the Fund, inc lud ing five nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange systems of four other countries which were not members of the Fund at the time th is Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1964. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or inc lude re fe rences to s ign if icant develop- ments wh ich took p lace early in 1965. A s tandard ized f r am ewo rk has been employed in d r a f t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each coun try survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more s ign if icant changes wh ich took p lace in the restrictive system du r ing 1964 and, for a few coun tr ies, the early mon ths of 1965. An ind ica t ion of the sub ject ma t ter to be found under these headings is given in the fo l low ing pa rag raph s. Under Exchange Rate System, the par va lue, where one has been agreed w i th the Fund, and /or the o f f ic ial exchange rates are given, usua l ly in terms of the U.S. do l la r, together with a re fe rence to other rates wh ich may be essential to the coun try's exchange rate system. In the surveys of most countries with mu l t ip le exchange rate systems, f u r t h er de ta i ls are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see b e low ). The rates quoted are those e f fec t ive as at December 31, 1964, un less stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange con trol is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or au tonomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and adm in is tra t ion of the controls and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for prac t ical work ing purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements a f fec t ing the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions w i th other coun tr ies are described. Where a country has concluded pay- ments agreements w i th o ther countries or mone tary areas, the terms of these agreements of ten lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. The coun tr ies w i th wh ich b i la teral payments agreements are in fo rce are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose 15 REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and f rom such non- resident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional require- ments imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license/' which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt f rom the "restrictive appli- cation of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license/' which may be either given free ly, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports f rom countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of perm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described br ief ly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For most countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see be low ). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licens- ing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the cen t ral bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a f r ee market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. 16 EXPLANATORY NOTE TO COUNTRY SURVEYS Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for fo re ign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in th is section ra ther than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. In the Table of Exchange Rates, wh ich is provided for most coun- tries having a multiple currency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective as at the end of December 1964 are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising f r om the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at d i f fe rent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1964, the more significant changes in the coun try's restrictive system dur ing 1964 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1965 are indicated at the end of the survey or in footnotes to the text. 17 This page intentionally left blank Country Surveys This page intentionally left blank AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is A fghan is 45.00 = US$1. The A fghan is tan Bank (Da A fghan i s tan Bank, the central bank) charges a commission of 0.67 per cent of parity for buy ing or selling. The off ic ial buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton, and to foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in a fghan is of fore ign experts. Exchange taxes of 15.56, 24.44, and 28.89 per cent are payable on the proceeds from exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton, respectively. Under certain conditions (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), a rebate of Af 4 per US$1 is allowed on the exchange tax on the proceeds f rom exports of cotton. The off ic ial selling rate applies to foreign exchange payments by the Government and certain government agencies for imports and other purposes. All other transactions take place at f ree market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. On December 31, 1964, the f ree market rate of the A fghan is tan Bank was Af 65 buy ing, Af 65.50 selling, per US$1, and the f ree market buying rate in the bazaar was about Af 68 per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the A fgh an i s t an Bank. The control is fac i l i ta ted by the existence of relatively large companies specializing in the export of such com- modities as ka raku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these com- panies do not exercise a monopoly over such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries with which A fghan is tan has bilateral trade and payments agreements must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements.1 The proceeds f rom exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, l iquor, arms, and ammun i- t ion) are prohibited for social or security reasons; in some instances, 1 These countries are Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Po land, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments agreement w i th India under wh ich trade in ce r ta in commod i t ies is settled th rough a special account ma in ta ined in inconvertible Indian rupees. 21 AFGHANISTAN however, special permission-to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agri- cultural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. In general, there are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Some of the bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas for commodities to be traded, and the Government exercises control to ensure that trade conforms with the commitments under- taken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with these countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for repayment of government loans. Exchange is provided at the off ic ial rate for imports of "approved industrial requirements and some minor items and for all imports by the Government and certain government agencies, such as the Monopolies Administration, which imports the entire requirements of sugar and petroleum. Other imports take place at f ree market rates. Payments for impor ts through the bank ing system may be made only under letters of credit, against wh ich a local currency deposit of 100 per cent of the va lue of the imports is required upon establish- ment of the letter of credit. The A fghan i s tan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of con- sumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either f rom the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Government paymen ts for invisibles and payments to foreigners on government contract in Afghanistan are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at f ree market rates. Travelers leaving A fghan is tan may take out not more than Af 500 in A f g h an banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries f rom which payment will be received in convertible currencies. Exchange receipts f rom exports of karaku l, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate and are subject to taxes of 15.56, 22 AFGHANISTAN 24.44, and 28.89 per cent, respectively. A rebate of Af 4 per U.S. dollar is allowed on the exchange tax on the proceeds f rom exports of cotton in excess of the requirement that at least 20 per cent of total exports of cotton should be made to countries from which pay- ment will be received in convertible currencies. Surrender require- ments are also maintained for the proceeds of some other exports to bilateral agreement countries. With this exception, the proceeds of all exports other than karaku l, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the currency in which they accrue, may be sold at f ree market rates or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in afghan is of fore ign experts must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate. Receipts f rom foreign embassies, legations, and other foreign off ic ial agencies must be surrendered to the Afghan is tan Bank at its f ree market buying rate. All other receipts f rom invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering A fghan is tan may bring in A fgh an banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital All fore ign investment in Afghan is tan requires prior approval, which is granted readily if the investment is deemed conducive to the prosperity and economic and technical advancement of the country. The Law Encouraging the Investment of Private Foreign Capital in Afghan is tan (November 18, 1958) provides that, beginning five years a f t er the date of the investment, registered capital may be repatriated through an authorized bank at a free rate in annual installments not exceeding one fifth of the amount invested. It also provides that ten years after the date of the investment the entire registered capital may be repatriated at a f ree rate at any time. The annual repatriation of profits up to 15 per cent of registered capital (under the 1958 law or an earlier one) is guaranteed and may take place through an authorized bank at its f ree rate. Changes during 1964 May 25. Exporters of cotton were required to direct at least 20 per cent of their total exports to areas f rom which payment would be received in convertible currencies. A rebate of Af 4 per US$1 was allowed on the exchange tax on the proceeds f rom exports of cotton over and above this requirement. 23 AFGHANISTAN June 15. The importation of certain goods (e.g., various textiles, agricultural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) was prohibited. Furthermore, the A fghan is tan Bank was authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that were regarded as nonessential. June 23. Payments for imports through the banking system were restricted to payments under letters of credit; a deposit in local currency of 100 per cent of the va lue of the imports was required upon establishment of the credit. June 23. Receipts f rom foreign embassies, legations, and other foreign off ic ial agencies no longer had to be sold at the off ic ial rate; they had to be surrendered to the A fghan i s tan Bank at its f ree market buying rate. December 14- Certain textiles were deleted f rom the list of prohibited imports. 24 ALGERIA 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the Algerian D inar, which is at par with the French f r a n c, giving the relationship Algerian dinar 4.93706 = US$1. There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f r a nc as well as for currencies of other countries in the French Franc Area. Buying and selling rates for currencies of coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are fixed by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the average rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control The Office of the Director-General of Finance, attached to the Office of the President of the Republic, has general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the fo rmu la- tion of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution. In large part, this execution takes place through the Exchange Control Off ice, which is part of the Central Bank. In addition, a number of banks have been given authority to carry out much of the detail of exchange control matters. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONAGO) and certain profess ional associations (groupements professionnels) have a monopoly over the import of certain commodities. Prescription of Currency Algeria is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made in French f rancs through banks in France. Settlements with countries, except Mainland China, Cuba, and Mali, with wh ich Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agree- ments 2 are made through accounts denominated in U.S. do l lars under the terms of the agreements; for Mali, the account is in Algerian dinars. 1 In view of changes which took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 11, 1965. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Gu inea, No r th Korea, Mali, Poland, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. J25 ALGERIA Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied in France. For residents of other French Franc Area coun- tries, there are three types of accounts: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are sub ject to au thor iza t ion. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without au thor iza- tion and may be credited with payments f r om any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited free ly with proceeds f rom the surrender of convertible cu r rency; with proceeds f rom the surrender of freely disposable f u n ds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc A rea; with interest on the balances of French Franc Area Accoun ts; and with paymen ts for imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area. They may be debited free ly for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lger ia) ; for any t ran s fer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than A lge r ia; and f or any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are f ree. Final Departure Accounts may be opened w i thout au tho r iza t ion in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited free ly with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person conce rned; with proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the intermediary of a notary pub l ic; with proceeds accruing f rom the sale of stocks and other securities and f rom any income, amortization, and redemption in respect of securities, provided that the transactions are made through the intermediary of a b ank; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. These accoun ts may be debited free ly for all payments in Algeria on behalf of the account ho lde r; balances of less than DA 5,000 may, sub ject to certain conditions, be trans- fe r red to other parts of the French Franc Area. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements (see foo tno te 2 ). 26 ALGERIA Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries (see foo t- note 2) require a license. A number of specified imports, listed under some 150 tariff headings, subheadings, or their parts, f rom all other countries are prohibited or are sub ject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure; the items include such commodities as butter, cattle, cement, cereals, clothing, co f fee, fish, matches, meat, melons, milk, phosphates, sheep, soap, sugar, tea, tobacco, tomatoes, vegetables, wine, and passenger cars and other motor vehicles. The Government has the monopoly over the importation of some of these items (e.g., coffee, tea, sugar) through its Office Na t ional de Commercialisation; while some of the other items (certain milk products, specified wood, shoes, and certain textiles) may as a rule be imported only by professional associations (groupement profes- sionnel des produits laitiers or GAIRLAC, groupement professional des bois or BOIMEX, groupement professionnel de la chaussure or GIAC, and groupement professionnel de textiles or GITEXAL). Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives require an import license f rom the Ministry of the Interior ( f or civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense ( f or munitions and explosives). Import quotas for restricted imports are published in the official gazette. All other imports from countries with which Algeria does not maintain bilateral payments agreements may be made freely. Liberalized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs. Most liberalized imports whose value exceeds this figure are admitted on the basis of a declaration completed by the importer, but some require an administrative visa, which is stamped on an import attestation. Imports exceeding DA 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment has to be made be fo re the goods reach Algeria, must be registered (domiciled) with an authorized bank, to which the neces- sary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Imports "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any k ind, f rom the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of National Economy if their c . i . f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declaration procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been registered with an authorized bank, purchase the required 27 ALGERIA foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domiciled (registered) the import, open a documentary import credit upon presentation of the shipping documents. A production tax and an additional tax are levied on all imports, their combined incidence is as follows: For Imports Valued For Imports Valued at up to DA 50,000 at over DA 50,000 In per cent Normal rates Reduced rates Special rates Increased rates 20.4 11.1 7.5 37.9 20.48 11.11 7.52 37.93 Imports of capital equipment for oil companies and certain imports of raw materials are exempt from the production tax. Importers subject to this tax who act as fiscal agents (producteurs fiscaux) are entitled to deduct the amount of the production tax paid on their imports each month from the domestic tax on their total volume of business. Special import taxes apply on imports of specified rugs and textiles and on leather. A compensatory surcharge ranging from the equiva- lent of DA 15.25 to DA 646.80 a hectoliter is applied to imports of alcoholic beverages and products containing alcohol. A temporary import surcharge of 3 per cent is levied on imports f rom all countries, with the exception of certain specified products, e.g., staple food- stuffs, minerals, antibiotics, books, and spare parts. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks either freely or up to specified limits for such payments as (1) approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, etc., from approved investments, (3) banking commis- sions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes, (4) fees to lawyers, medical doctors, etc. For other invisibles, the granting of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. 28 ALGERIA Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation may t ran s fer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 45 per cent for single or married persons having their families in Algeria; 65 per cent for persons hav ing their fam i l ies ab road; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence f rom A lger ia). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 25 per cent, 45 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. For residents traveling to other countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 1,500 a person a year and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents. Furthermore, residents traveling by air or sea to a country within the French Franc Area are entitled to an allocation, in the currency of the country of destination, equivalent to DA 500 a person for each jou rney, on presentation of travel documents certified by the authorized in termed iary; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. If travel is by means other than air or sea, a single allocation of DA 500 (DA 250 for children under 15) a calendar quarter may be obtained upon presentation of passport and travel documents. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain a check in Saudi A rab ian riyals drawn on a bank in Jidda, up to the equivalent of DA 1,200 a person for 1964. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified used machinery and of equipment used in industrial production, exploitation of mines, etc., are prohibited. All exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agree- ments and some exports to all other countries require licenses. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, which do not exceed DA 5,000 in value, and which are payable in not more than 90 days. After customs 29 ALGERIA c learance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only a f t er au tho r iza t ion is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly sub ject to au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank, and registration must always take place pr ior to cus- toms clearance. The proceeds of exports, inc lud ing those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90-day credit and must the rea f ter be collected w i th in 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make au thor ized paymen ts abroad within three months f r om the date of their receipt. Companies ho ld ing mineral rights must deposit in Algeria 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom their exports of hydro- carbons. Certain percentages of export proceeds may be kept in special, non transferab le, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts wh ich may be used by the account holder for all authorized paymen t s; however, amounts accru ing f rom exports to the French Franc Area may be used only for settlements w i th countries in that Area. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Amounts exceeding DA 500 that are due f rom nonresidents in payment for services must be collected and, if not used to make authorized payments abroad, must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of receipt. There are no restrictions on the impo rt of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold co ins ), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must dec lare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Travelers may bring in A lger ian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Capital Decree-Law 63-277 of Ju ly 26, 1963 establishes a code for fore ign investments in Algeria that were made a f t er July 1, 1962. Such investments can be unde r taken to establish new, or to extend existing, enterprises, provided that such enterprises (1) are recognized by the authorities as having economic priority in accordance with pro- grams prepared by the Government, (2) constitute a program of investment of at least DA 5 million, to be carried out in three years, and (3) give rise to the permanent employment of a specified mini- mum number of Algerian nationals. Such approved enterprises benefit f rom certain advantages in respect of fiscal charges and other taxes. Moreover, sub ject to the fu l f i l lment of certain other conditions (such as the effect that the investment would have on related 30 ALGERIA economic activities and the volume of production intended for export), additional privileges relating to certain taxes are accorded to the approved enterprises. The transfer abroad of part of the profits f rom, as well as part of the proceeds from the liquidation of, such investments is authorized by the Central Bank in accordance with the guarantees provided for in the decree. Similar transfers (including those to countries in the French Franc Area) related to other invest- ments are also subject to authorization by the Central Bank. Changes during 1964 During the period under review a number of imports were added to, and a few more removed f rom, the list of those that were subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure. Only the more important measures of this nature are listed below. March 6. The import and export of Algerian dinar banknotes was limited to DA 50 a person. March 7. French farmers whose holdings had been nationalized by a decree of October 10, 1963 were permitted to transfer the sales proceeds of their wine and cereal crops, net of any operating losses. March 20. Holders of Final Departure Accounts could transfer to other parts of the French Franc Area 20 per cent of their balances, up to a maximum transfer of DA 20,000. April 10. By Law No. 64-111 the monetary unit of Algeria was changed from the Algerian f ranc to the Algerian dinar (DA ). The unit was defined as having a weight of 0.180 gram of fine gold; like the previous unit it was at par with the French f ranc. April 17. Certain radio transmitting and receiving equipment was added to the list of goods requiring an individual import license. April 24. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives were made subject to special import licenses from the Ministry of the Interior ( f or civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense ( f or munitions and explosives). May 10. Imports of tomatoes were prohibited. June 18. Passenger cars and other motor vehicles were added to the list of goods requiring an individual import license. June 30. Imports of melons were prohibited. July 29. Residents were required to surrender all foreign banknotes and other foreign exchange. 31 ALGERIA August 1. Companies ho ld ing mineral rights were required to deposit in Algeria 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons. August 10. Decree 64-233 (published in the off ic ial gazette of August 21) empowered the Minister of Economy to establish profes- sional associations (groupements professionnels); affiliation in such associations would be obligatory for all persons performing any activity f a l l ing w i th in the framework of the tasks to be fu l f i l led by these associations. A re fusal of admission by a professional group would entail a prohibition to exercise the particular profession or trade covered by that group. Each association must draw up an annual import program; it was required to allocate corresponding quotas to its members in accordance with instructions that would be given by the Minister of National Economy. August 14- Furniture was added to the list of goods requiring an individual import license. September 11. By Decree 64-233 of August 10 (see above ), three professional associations were established —one for milk producers (GA IRLAC ), one for wood (BOIMEX), and a third for shoes (G IAC ). They were given the monopoly of domestic purchases and imports of (1) certain dairy products, (2) specified types of lumber, and (3) specified types of foo twear, respectively. Payment for imports made by the professional associations for the account of their members had to be made in the fo l low ing manne r: 5 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue of the merchandise to be imported had to be paid to the association at the time a partial import contract was made. For the balance, an irrevocable credit had to be established wh ich was transferab le to the association, upon presentation of the pro forma invoice of the supp l ier, at least five days prior to the date on which the association had to open a letter of credit in favor of the supplier. September 19. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded w i th Ma in land China. October 5. New regulations were issued concerning payments with Mali. October 23. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with North Korea. November 11. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Guinea. December 17. Agreement was reached on the import treatment wh ich Algeria and France would accord each other dur ing 1965. 32 Algeria would reserve 60 per cent of its 1965 import quotas for produc ts o'f French origin and provenance. ALGERIA NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1965: January 1. A profess ional association for textiles —groupement professionnel de textiles (GITEXAL) —was established. It was given the monopoly over the importation of certain textiles and the responsibility of d raw ing up an annual import program for the textiles concerned and of allocating corresponding quotas to its members. January 11. Balances up to DA 5,000 in Final Departure Accounts could, subject to certain conditions, be transferred to other parts of the French Franc Area. 33 ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On Janua ry 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in a f r ee exchange market, in wh ich the rate on December 30, 1964 was M$N 150.90 per US$1. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between individuals and authorized banks or among au tho r ized banks at f ree ly negotiated exchange rates. Forward exchange purchases by the pub l ic, however, require a 50 per cent deposit in local currency, except fo rwa rd con- tracts concluded by banks in connection with imports and contracts concluded as part of a swap transaction. Forward transactions among au thor ized banks are exempt f rom the 50 per cent deposit. The deposit may not be f inanced by borrowing locally and is returned upon the liquidation of the transaction. Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and insti- tutions authorized expressly for this purpose. The Central Bank of Argentina may intervene in the exchange market to avoid excessive variations resulting f rom temporary fac tors. Prescription of Currency Under a bilateral paymen ts agreement with U ruguay, merchandise transactions and certain transactions in invisibles are settled in agree- ment dollars. Transactions with other countries must be settled in convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos in the name of nonresidents. The accounts may be credited w i th the coun terpart of convertible fore ign exchange negotiated in the exchange market and with peso amounts that are t rans fe rab le abroad. Balances in these accounts may be used to make payments in Argentina. They may also be reconverted into foreign exchange for payments abroad or for repatriation, up to the amount of fore ign exchange previously sold by the account holder in the exchange market. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. 34 ARGENTINA Imports and Import Payments Imports are generally f r ee of import and exchange l icens ing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the f ree market. Some import payments, however, require the specific approval of the Central Bank. Goods imported by off ic ial agencies require approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Impor ts of trac tors of less than 85 horsepower must be authorized by the Tractor Industry Council. Imports of a number of nonessential or luxury goods are temporarily p roh ib i ted; these inc lude cer ta in food s tu f f s, beverages, and industrial consumer goods. All imports are sub ject to a tax of 4 per cent on the f re ight charges. Practically all imports are also subject to special taxes and surcharges, besides the applicable import duties. Import taxes inc lude the fo l low ing: a special 5 per cent tax on almost all imports except when originating in LAFTA countries; a consu lar fee of 1% per cent, payab le in U.S. dollars on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or %0 Per cent app l icab le to all impor ts; taxes rang ing f r om 4 per cent to 10 per cent on impor ts of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest produc ts (the taxes on logs and sawmill products amount to M$N 2 and M$N 8, respectively, per square meter by one inch, for imports f rom LAFTA coun t r i e s ); and taxes rang ing f rom M$N 200 to M$N 2,000 a ton on imports of iron and steel. For import purposes, commodities are grouped in lists accord ing to their essentiality and domestic production. Surcharges are established for these lists, independen t ly of the customs duties payable in accord- ance with the Schedule of Valuations. Except for goods in List 1 ( fu e l s, some metals, rubbe r, newsprint, e tc . ), surcharges on the c. & f. va lue of the invoice, on the index price established for the com- mod i ty concerned, or on its no rmal import value,1 are payable be fo re in i t ia t ion of customs clearance, as fo l low s: 2 20 per cent on numerous raw materials, drugs, iron and steel bars, t inp la te, woodpu lp, etc. (List 2) 46 per cent on semiprocessed articles, timber, chemical products, etc. (L i s tS) 1 In many cases, surcharges and import duties are assessed on index prices (ajoros) expressed in U.S. dollars per un i t. Where no index pr ice has been established, surcharges are levied on the c. & f. invoice va lue, or, if the no rmal impo rt va lue is considerably higher, on the la t te r. 2 These include the fo l low ing temporary surcharges imposed on goods cleared th rough customs before October 31, 1965. List 3: 6 per cen t; List 4: 15 per cen t; List 5: 22 per cen t; List 6: 9 per cen t; List 6A: 15 per cen t; List 6B: 22 per c en t; List 6C: 9 per cen t; List 7: 30 per c e n t; and List 8: 12 per cent. 35 ARGENTINA 69 per cent on industrial machinery the local production of which is very limited or for which this surcharge represents sufficient protection (List 6C ); and on industrial machinery and motors not included in Lists 6A or 6B (List 6) 92 per cent on semiprocessed products or raw materials produced locally (ListS) 115 per cent on spare parts, tires, tools, etc. (List 4) and on industrial machinery the local production of which does not fu l ly meet domestic demand or for which this surcharge repre- sents sufficient protection (List 6A) 172 per cent on processed articles manufactured locally and imports of which are not essential (List 5 ); on industrial machinery manufac tured locally (List 6B ); and on all goods, other than machinery, not included in any list 230 per cent on nonessential and luxury items, e.g., whisky, bicycle chains, transistor radios, starters, fluorescent tubes, textiles and ready-made clothing of cotton, wool, artificial silk, etc. (List 7) There are, in addition, special regulations governing certain imports, as fo l lows: (1) Imports of automobiles are subject to special sur- charges according to weight and value. (2) Imports of parts used in the domestic manufac ture of automobiles are subject to a fixed surcharge up to certain percentages of the c. & f. value of the auto- mobile; these percentages are being decreased annually according to a previously approved production plan. (3) Certain imports from the other members of LAFTA (Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay) enjoy special tax exemptions outside the general system, by virtue of the mutual agreements reached with these countries. (4) Certain imports from Bolivia enjoy special tax exemptions. (5) Machinery and materials for vital industries (petroleum, coal, steel, power, railroads, etc.), machinery for the establishment of industries in developing areas, capital goods related to foreign investment, and personal effects brought in by foreign diplomats and, in small quantities, by immigrants and travelers are exempt from payment of surcharges. To prevent unauthorized capital movements all import payments require documentary evidence of the bona fide nature of the trans- action. Some import payments require the specific approval of the Central Bank; these include payments by automobile manufacturers for imports of raw materials and equipment, and payments for most imports of capital goods. Payments for capital goods valued at over US$5,000, with the exception mainly of those imported from LAFTA countries, must be made in installments over a period ranging f rom 36 ARGENTINA at least two and a ha lf years to at least nine years a f ter the date of sh ipmen t, depend ing on the total va lue of the goods. Advance pay- ments for imports require a prior deposit in local currency equivalent to 50 per cent of the foreign currency being transferred. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased in the free market, subject in a few cases noted above to prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for many categories of invisibles up to established l im i ts, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of documen ta ry evidence or sworn dec la ra t ions of the bona fide na tu re of the transaction. Transfers in excess of the established limits require the au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank. Exchange is granted up to US$100 a person a t r ip for travel to Ch i le, Bolivia, Paraguay, B raz i l, and Peru; up to US$1,000 a month for a person 18 years of age or older (US$500 a mon th for a person under 18) for travel for a 30-day period to U rugu ay; and up to US$1,000 a person a t r ip for travel to other countries (US$500 for a person under 18). Exchange for med ical treatment abroad is granted up to US$1,000 a person; this amount cannot be taken up more than once. Remittances for students abroad are allowed up to US$300 for each student a mon th; in addition, up to US$200 may be t rans fe r red as a one-time installation a l lowance and up to US$50 every mon th for a student's w i fe and each of his ch i ld r en. Fam i ly r em i t t an c es are a l lowed up to M$N 10,000 a quarter for each benef ic iary. Payments for purchases of books and medicines and for subscriptions to newspapers and magazines by pr iva te ind iv idua ls are permitted up to M$N 5,000 a person a quar ter. Rem i t tances for purchases of books and subscriptions to newspapers and magaz ines by Chambers of Commerce and Industry and cu l tural organizations, other than pub l ic libraries, are limited to M$N 20,000 a pu rchaser a qua r te r; books and magaz ines of a scientific or techn ical na tu re are exempt f rom th is limitation. Remittances of trade commissions are limited to 6 per cent of the c. & f. value of imports and 6 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue of exports. T rans fe rs of profits, payments for current invisibles not listed above, and paymen ts in excess of the limits listed above requ ire the pr ior authorization of the Central Bank. The export of gold coins or bu l l ion and of domestic and fore ign banknotes requ ires the p r ior approval of the Central B ank; travelers, however, may take out f ree ly in the f o rm of fo re ign bankno tes 10 per cent of the ir travel a l lowance. 37 ARGENTINA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are f r ee of direct controls bu t, in general, exporters are required to repa tr ia te and sell in the exchange market the fo re ign exchange proceeds of their exports within 10 working days af ter sh ipm en t. Foreign exchange proceeds f r om exports of ch i l led meat to the United K ingdom, and proceeds f r om exports of newspapers, magaz ines, pamph le ts, p r in ted mus ic, and books printed and published in Argentina must be surrendered w i th in 10 days a f ter collection. For exports of meat to countries other than the United Kingdom, the exchange proceeds must be negotiated w i th in 90 days a f t er shipment. Proceeds f rom non trad i t ional exports for wh ich payment is received w i th in 180 days a f ter loading, and wh ich are covered by an irrevo- cable documen tary credit or by d r a f ts of similar du ra t ion, must be surrendered w i th in 10 work ing days a f ter the due date. The proceeds of exports to Chile for wh ich payment is made w i th in 120 days f r om e i ther the date of the bill of lad ing in the case of sea transpor t, or the date of arrival at a Ch i lean Government warehouse in other instances, must be surrendered w i th in 10 working days a f t er the due date. Exporters of malted barley and brewers' malt must surrender the export proceeds w i th in 45 days a f ter shipment. Some products are sub ject to retention taxes calculated on the basis of the f .o .b. sales va lue or on the index values fixed by the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on wh ich the National Grain Board and the National Meat Board are represented. The retention tax is 10 per cent for exports of pickled hides, certain oilseeds ( l inseed, sun f lower seed, co t tonseed, peanu ts, rapeseed, and tung nu t s ), and linseed o i l; and 20 per cent for horses, unprocessed hides, and some forestry products. The tax must be paid be fo re ship- ment of the merchandise or within the fo l low ing 30 days when there is a bank guarantee of payment. All exports are sub ject to a 2 per cent tax on the fre ight charges. Other taxes on exports are levied as fo l low s: a 10 per cent sales tax on exports of linseed oil, oilseeds, logs, coal, certain wood extracts, rawh ide, and woo l; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Agriculture and Livestock Fund, on exports of agricultural and livestock produc ts; a 1 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the financing of road construction in connec- tion with agr icu l tural development, on exports subject to retention taxes; a 1 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the National Grain Board, on certain agricultural produc ts; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the Secretariat of Public Works, on the export of certain other agricultural produc ts; a 0.3 per cent statistical tax on exports subject to retention taxes; and 38 ARGENTINA a 5 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the Forestry Fund, on exports of tann ing extracts. Surcharges, customs and add i t ional duties, and other charges paid on imports of raw materials or other products incorporated in exported articles are returned to exporters. Moreover, when the domestic indirect taxes have been paid, a re fund is made of 12 per cent of the value of exports of manu fac tu red products not traditionally exported. The Central Bank has established a system of f inanc ial support for products not traditionally exported, based on the purchase of bills in foreign currency w i th periods of up to five years for capital goods, up to two and a ha lf years for du rab le and sem idurab le goods, and up to one year for other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f r om inv is ib les must be sold in the f ree ma rket w i th in 30 days of receipt. The import of domestic banknotes is p roh ib i ted. Travelers may b r ing in f ree ly any amount in fo re ign banknotes. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital t rans fe rs by nonresidents. Argentine industrial or commercial firms, however, require the au thor- ization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under wh ich loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Remittances to repay fore ign loans or to t rans fer the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of fore ign investments in Argentina are au thor ized w i thout restriction provided that no t rans fer of domestic capital is involved. Ou twa rd capital movements by residents are restricted. The export of Argentine and fo re ign securities (shares and bonds) is subject to the au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank, except in the fo l low ing cases. Au thor ized banks may export domestic and fo re ign securities f r e e l y, provided that they have been purchased by a nonresident with f u n ds that entered Argentina a f ter Apr il 13, 1964. Au thor ized banks may export resident-owned securities, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in the f o rm of fore ign exchange, or that the secur i t ies are exchanged abroad for other securities which are subsequently imported into Argentina. Changes during 1964 January 1. Fu r ther ta r i ff reduc t ions were applied to impor ts f r om LAFTA coun tr ies of goods on Argentina's National List. 39 ARGENTINA January 20. It was announced that, hence fo r th, all foreign exchange transactions exceeding M$N 100,000 must be reported to the Central Bank. Transactions exceeding M$N 500,000 were not allowed unless detailed information about the transaction was submitted. January 21. A new list of prohibited imports was published. As a result a large number of previously prohibited items in List 5 and a few of those in List 7 could again be imported. Goods not specifically prohibited and not appearing in any of the official import lists could only be imported if a surcharge of 150 per cent and any applicable additional charges were paid. April 13. The following measures were introduced to prevent unauthorized capital movements. (1) Exporters were required to surrender, on the basis of the index value of the merchandise, the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports within 5 working days f rom the shipment of their merchandise. Where no index value existed, the surrender would be based on the f.o.b. value of the exported goods. Exchange proceeds f rom other transactions were required to be surrendered within 30 days f rom the date they were received or credited abroad. (2) Payments for imports required documentary evidence of the bona fide nature of the transaction. (3) Except for foreign diplomatic missions, purchases of fore ign exchange in excess of US$50 or its equivalent a person a month required a sworn declaration attesting the bona fide na ture of the transaction. Limita- tions were imposed on specified payments, as fo l lows: (a) M$N 5,000 a person a quarter for fam i ly remittances, purchases of books and medicines, and subscriptions to newspapers and magazines; (b) US$100 a trip a person for travel to contiguous countries, and US$750 a trip a person for travel to other countries; (c) US$100 a month for each scholarship holder for tuition and school fees; (d) 4 per cent of the f.o.b. value for export commission and 6 per cent of the c. & f. value for import commission. (4) Outward remittances of foreign- owned capital, as well as transfers of income from such capital, required the approval of the Central Bank for amounts in excess of M$N 5 million and M$N 2 million, respectively, a company a year. (5) The repayment of loans taken up in foreign exchange and not secured by a bank guarantee required the approval of the Central Bank. (6) The export of gold coins and bullion, domestic and foreign currency notes, and domestic and fore ign bearer securities was prohibited. (7) With the exception of forward sales in connection with imports, those resulting f rom swap transactions, and those between authorized institutions, all forward exchange sales contracts required an advance deposit of 50 per cent which must not be financed by local borrowing. (8) Financial institutions were forb idden to accept deposits 40 ARGENTINA in foreign currency on behalf of firms or individuals resident or domiciled in Argentina. Existing deposits had to be liquidated w i th in 90 days. April 16. The proceeds of nontraditional exports for which payment is made w i th in 180 days a f t er shipment and wh ich are covered by an irrevocable documentary credit or by d ra f ts of similar du ra t ion were required to be surrendered within 5 working days af ter expiry of the payment period. The proceeds of exports to Chile for which payment is made within 120 days from either the date of the bill of lading in the case of sea transport, or the date on which the goods arrive at a Chilean Government warehouse, also were required to be surrendered within 5 working days a f ter expiry of the payments period. April 27. The import prohibition for items in Lists 6, 6A, 6B, and 6C (i.e., industrial mach inery and equipment) was lifted. The sur- charge on items in Lists 6 and 6C was raised from 40 per cent to 60 per cent and the additional surcharge from 6 per cent to 9 per cent. Items in Lists 6A and 6B continued to be sub ject to surcharges of 100 per cent and 150 per cent, respectively, with additional sur- charges of 15 per cent and 22 per cent. The validity of the additional surcharges was extended until October 31,1964. May 8. The exchange control regulations of April 13 were modified as follows. (1) The time limit on the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds of exports was extended f rom 5 to 10 working days a f t er shipment or, in appropriate cases, to 10 days a f t er collec- tion. The latter requirement was applied to all exports of newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, printed music, and books printed and pub- lished in Argentina, and to exports of chilled meat to the United Kingdom. (2) The proceeds from exports of meat and o f f al to any destination other than the United Kingdom had to be surrendered w i th in 90 days of shipment. (3) Instead of the index value or the f.o.b. value of the exports, the actual sales price was adopted as the basis of the surrender requ ired; however, the amount to be surrendered could not be less than the index value or, if no index value was established, the f .o .b. value. (4) The limit on transfers of export commission was raised f rom 4 per cent to 6 per cent of the f.o.b. value. (5) The exchange allowance for residents traveling to other than ne ighbor ing countries was increased f rom US$750 to US$1,000 a person a trip. (6) Remittances for purchases of books and sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines by Chambers of Commerce and Industry and cultural organizations other than public libraries were limited to M$N 20,000 a purchaser a qua r te r; books and magazines of a scientific or technical nature, however, were not affected. 41 ARGENTINA (7) Payments for expenses of so jou rn and med ical treatment abroad were limited to a one-time remittance of US$1,000 a person. (8) The limit on remittances for study abroad was raised from US$100 to US$300 a student a month. In addition, US$50 a month could be transferred for a student's w i fe and each of his children, and US$200 could be transferred as an installation allowance. (9) The limit on fam i ly remittances was increased f rom M$N 5,000 to M$N 10,000 a quar ter for each bene f ic ia ry. (10) Au tho r ized institutions were empow- ered to export Argentine bearer securities against others received f rom abroad for exchange or against coupons received for collection. Also, authorized institutions were permitted to export securities purchased in Argentina with f u n ds imported a f t er Ap r il 13, 1964 and sold in the single exchange market. (11) Au thor ized institutions were permitted to import gold coins, gold bars, and fo re ign banknotes on their own b eh a l f. (12) Forward purchases of foreign exchange as part of swap operations to fac i l i ta te foreign loans to Argentine commercial and industrial organizations were exempted from the 50 per cent advance deposit requirement. May 15. By virtue of a LAFTA "complementarity agreement/' imports of specified electronic valves and components from LAFTA countries were exempted f rom customs duties and surcharges. June 11. Private individuals could no longer purchase foreign exchange up to US$50 a month without submitting a sworn declaration indicating the purpose of the purchase. June 12. Advance payments for imports required an advance deposit of 50 per cent of the amount being transferred. June 15. Private individuals could no longer purchase fore ign exchange up to US$50 a month (see June 11, above ). Trading in gold coins and bars was suspended. June 22. Sales of foreign exchange for travel to neighboring coun- tries had to be effected by postal or telegraphic transfer. However, up to 5 per cent of the allowance of US$100 could be bought in the fo rm of foreign banknotes. June 29. Sales of foreign exchange for travel to countries not contiguous to Argentina had to be effected by postal or telegraphic transfer. However, up to 10 per cent of the allowance of US$1,000 could be bought in the form of foreign banknotes. July 1. All remittances of foreign diplomatic establishments and their mission heads had to be effected by postal or telegraphic transfer. Remittances of members, other than mission heads, of such establish- ments required prior approval. 42 ARGENTINA July 7. Authorized institutions could, subject to prior approval by the Central Bank, export foreign currency notes, gold coins, and gold bullion. They were also permitted to export Argentine or foreign bearer securities as follows: (1) foreign securities for the purpose of conversion, collection, or repayment, in which cases the authorized institutions must guarantee the return of the securities or the proceeds in foreign cu r rency; (2) Argentine securities which must be sent abroad in exchange for other securities or for coupons. Foreign securities exported must have been acquired on an Argentine stock exchange and paid for with foreign exchange received from abroad and surrendered a f ter April 13, 1964, or paid for with pesos debited after this date from the peso account of a foreign banking institution. July 7. Authorized institutions were permitted to open or maintain foreign currency accounts for governments, Argentine public agencies, international agencies, foreign diplomatic missions and their officials, cultural or scientific institutions, and insurance companies domiciled in Argentina. July 8. Authorized institutions were permitted to sell foreign exchange for premia of insurance contracts entered into prior to April 13, 1964 or of insurance contracts covering goods exported f rom or imported into Argentina. The sale of foreign exchange for premia of insurance contracts covering capital goods situated in Argentina but partially or totally owned abroad was permitted, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. July 10. Payments for imports cleared through customs prior to December 31, 1963 required the prior approval of the Central Bank. July 17. The operations of authorized exchange houses were restricted. Their sales of foreign exchange (including banknotes) to authorized banks and their purchases of foreign exchange and gold f rom authorized banks required the prior approval of the Central Bank. July 28. Payments for the following imports cleared through customs on or before December 31, 1963 were exempted f rom the require- ment of prior approval by the Central Bank: imports by government agencies, imports guaranteed by bank avals, and imports covered by the deferred payments agreement of June 6, 1963 concerning Argen- tina's foreign commercial debts. July 24. Sales of foreign exchange for travel to Peru were limited to US$100 a person a trip. Up to 5 per cent of this amount could be bought in the fo rm of banknotes; the remainder had to be remitted by postal or telegraphic transfer. Sales of foreign exchange for travel 43 ARGENTINA to Uruguay were limited to US$25 a person a month, to be remitted entirely by postal or telegraphic transfer. August 27. The payment in Argentine currency for tickets for foreign travel was restricted to residents embarking and commencing their journey in Argentina. Freight payments in Argentine currency were only permitted when related to direct foreign trade transactions. September 14. All purchases of foreign exchange for imports not covered by letters of credit, except those by "acknowledged solvent enterprises" required the prior approval of the Central Bank. October 5. Provided that certain conditions were fulfilled, several categories of travel fares were exempted from the requirement that they be paid for in foreign currency; the exemptions included (1) return fares of Argentine holders of foreign scholarships; (2) fares for outward or return travel of students holding a scholarship in Argentina; (3) return fares of Argentine nationals or residents who return to Argentina no later than 12 months af ter they le ft Argentina; (4) outward fares for crew members of foreign vessels or a i rc ra f t; (5) fares for immigrants jo in ing their families in Argentina; (6) single- trip or round-trip fares for foreign technicians, scientists, or other persons under contract to Argentine firms; (7) tickets for foreign travel for officials of foreign diplomatic missions and international agencies and for their fam i l ies; and (8) tickets for foreign travel paid for by the National Government or a Provincial Government. October 9. All outward remittances of capital and profits required the prior authorization of the Central Bank. October 16. It was announced that the temporary 5 per cent import tax introduced on November 1, 1962 as an emergency measure would continue in force until October 31, 1965; the temporary additional surcharges were also extended until that date. November 17. Travelers to Uruguay were allowed to remit to Uruguay up to the equivalent of US$1,000 for a 30-day period for each traveler; the allowance for persons under 18 was set at US$500 for each 30-day period. November 20. Payments for imports of capital goods valued at over US$5,000 were required to be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two and a half years to at least nine years af ter the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Imports f rom LAFTA countries were exempt from these requirements. November 20. The exchange allocation for travel to countries not contiguous to Argentina was reduced from the equivalent of US$1,000 to that of US$500 a person a trip for persons under 18. 44 ARGENTINA December 2. It was announced that in f u t u re import taxes would be calculated on the invoice amount when the latter was h igher than the index value. December 27. The period w i th in wh ich the proceeds of exports of malted barley and brewers' malt were required to be surrendered was extended to 45 days a f t er shipment. 45 AUSTRALIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Aus tra l ian Pound 1 — US$2.24. Official rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: £A 125 buying, and £A 125/10/- selling, per £ stg. 100. The rates for spot transactions in other cur- rencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 was US$2.2348 buying, and US$2.2219 selling, per £A 1. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia administers the exchange control on beha lf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the t rad ing banks authorized to hand le foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Depar tment of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Aus tra l ia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Aus tra l ia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in ano ther Sterling Area currency, or in Aus tra l ian currency th rough the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Australia. Payments for imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Aus tra l ian cu r rency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Proceeds f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling f r om an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Aus tra l ian currency f rom an appropriate nonresident account, or in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are sub ject to approval, wh ich is granted in the same circumstances and sub ject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed f ree ly, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. 46 AUSTRALIA Under c u r r e nt po l icy, the ba lance on a non re s ident account may be w i thd r awn in convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for unwrought a lum inum and a lum inum alloy, waste and scrap of a lum inum and a lum inum alloy, and used ear th-mov ing, excavating, or materials-handling equipment and parts. All other goods may be imported freely without import licenses. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports, provided that the prescr ip t ion of cu r rency requ iremen ts are observed. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles are sub ject to exchange control, but they are not restricted; the control operates solely to prevent unauthorized cap i tal t ran s fe r s. There is a basic exchange a l lowance of £A 2,000 in any 12 mon ths for any k ind of travel in any coun t ry; add i t ional amounts may be ob ta ined on app l ica t ion, provided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unau tho r ized cap i tal t ran s fe r. Limits are placed on rem i t tances for fam i ly ma in tenance and g i f t s; however, app l ica t ions for such t rans fe rs are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the normal limit for fam i ly ma in tenance are approved on application. A traveler may take out up to £A 50 in Au s t ra l ian cu r rency, w i thout special a u t h o r i z a t i o n; of this amoun t, up to £A 2 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, exports require licenses issued by the Depart- ment of Customs and Excise, to ensure that the f u ll proceeds are received in a currency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a f u r t h er condition that all sh ipp ing documents, bills of lad ing, etc., must be d rawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a t rad ing bank acting as its agent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of f r e e ly. Proceeds f r om invisibles in o ther currencies do not have to be su r rende red, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only w i th perm iss ion. 47 AUSTRALIA Capital All transfers of capital f rom Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital are allowed for certain types of direct investment overseas. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capital funds f rom abroad, but residents must obtain prior approval before borrowing foreign currency or incu r r ing a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Foreign securities owned by Aus t ra l ian residents need not be sur- rendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose pr inc ipal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held w i th in the Sterling Area. The export of securities and practically all transactions in fore ign securities are subject to approval. Changes during 1964 January 11. Licensing control was removed f rom imports of certain types of timber. May 14. Licensing control was removed f r om bearings. May 27. Aus tra l ia ceased invok ing the provisions of Ar t ic le XXXV of the GATT with regard to Japan. imports of ball 48 AUSTRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Austrian Schillings 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are S 25.80 buying, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Austria and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. Forward premiums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of mar- ket forces. Aus t r ia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1,1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been au thor ized to imp lement exchange control regulations. The customs issue f ree ly and w i thout delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction (Licensing O f f ice) or the Federal Ministry of Ag r icu l tu re and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with wh ich Aus tr ia ma in ta ins b i la t- eral payments a r rangemen ts1 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the United A rab Republic are, in practice, made in convertible currencies, although under the agreement with that country Aus tr ian traders may make payments in agreement Egyptian pounds. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in con- vertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. 1 Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. 49 AUSTRIA Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accoun ts in schillings: Free Sch i l l ing Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts may be free ly credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Aus t r ian National Bank, or to an au thor ized bank, as well as w i th payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or ind iv idual au thor iza t ion. Transfers between these accounts are f ree. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which requ ire ind iv idual licenses. Ba lances on these accounts may be free ly converted into any fore ign currency. Blocked Accounts consist of f u n ds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The t ran s fer abroad of f u n ds in Blocked Accounts is sub ject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted free ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of countries with which Aus tr ia makes settlements in convertible currencies. As a result, Blocked Accoun ts largely represent f u n ds due to residents of countries with wh ich Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Accounts in con- vertible fo re ign currencies. These accoun ts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not inc luded in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are f r ee of import licensing and may be imported f r om any coun t ry w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are f r ee of quantitative restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries f rom wh ich they are impo r ted; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.2 Liberalized imports f rom European OECD countries, their associated terri- tories, and many other coun t r ies3 inc lude goods covered by more 2 Goods liberalized for import f r om a given group of countries may be f ree ly impo r ted f rom any coun try in the g roup, prov ided that the coun t ry of expor ta t ion and the country of p roduc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. 3T he fu ll list is as fo l low s: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bu rma, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cambodia, Canada, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and G reen land ), Dominican Repub l ic, F in land, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, 50 AUSTRIA than 1,700 ta r i ff numbe rs (or parts t h e r e o f ). Imports f r om Canada and the United States and its territories are liberalized to the same degree as those f rom the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered pou l try is sub ject to quantitative restriction when imported f rom Canada or the United States. Imports f r om 3 other countries 4 are treated in prac t ica l ly the same way as imports f rom European OECD countries. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trad ing, g lobal quotas, b i la teral quotas, discretionary l icens ing, and compensation (ba r te r) . State t rad ing covers tobacco in any f o rm, salt, spirits, and var ious bread and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports f r om OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, and Japan. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely a f fect domestic industries. Licenses may be granted for goods imported under compensation transac t ions, if there is no o ther way of settling paymen ts; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains and other specified goods are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so- called Marke t ing Laws. In addition to grains, the fo l low ing groups of products are covered by Marketing Laws: milk and bu t ter; cattle, pigs, and horses for s laugh te r; produc ts f r om these an ima ls for h um an consumption ; and certain fertilizers. In p r inc ip le, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quo ta, wh ich is up to a max imum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quo ta. Import licenses are not t ran s fe rab le and are valid for six mon ths, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not requ ire exchange licenses.5 Payments for impor ts f r om, and originat- Guinea, Ha i t i, Iceland, Indonesia, Ire land, Italy, Ivory Coast,, Jama ica, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Luxembou rg, Malagasy Repub l ic, Ma law i, Malaysia, Ma l i, M a l t a, Maur i tan ia, Netherlands,, New Zea land, N ica ragua, Niger, N iger ia, No rway, Peru, Por tuga l, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Soma l ia, South A f r ica, Spa in, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Tanzan ia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,, Tu rkey, Uganda, United K ingdom, United States, Upper Vo l ta, U ruguay, and Zamb ia. 4 India, Israel, and Pakistan. 5 For some of these imports, licenses are granted only on cond i t ion th at a b i la teral currency is used for paymen t. 51 AUSTRIA ing in, countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments agreements require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude trans- actions involving current invisibles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Excep- tions comprise transactions concerning transport, films, and insur- ance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral payments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight payments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to residents of coun- tries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. All payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. There is, in addition, a convertible currency quota for business trips of S 3,000 a person for each trip to such countries. Should a resident traveler require more foreign exchange, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expendi- tures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation (barter) arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction. For most other ex- ports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration of the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and of the needs of the Austrian economy. 52 AUSTRIA Export claims must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with au thor ized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used free ly for au thor ized payments. Deposits in bilateral clearing currenc ies may be used in accordance with the terms of an individual payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared w i th in eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an au thor ized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing f rom exports. Persons entering Aus tr ia may br ing in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins w i th- out limit. Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are generally permitted, if made w i th convertible currencies or f r om f r ee or or ig ina l ly owned blocked sch i l l ing balances. For investments f inanced in other ways (imported Aus t r ian currency, inconver t ib le currencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are permitted to obtain f rom nonresidents loans and credits as fo l low s: (1) commercial credits for a period of up to one yea r; (2) loans w i th maturities of five years or more, to be used for investment purposes (e.g., for expansion of production e q u i pm e n t ); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Aus tr ia in wh ich the non- residents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and (5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite merchand ise transactions. The Austrian Na t ional Bank permits the t ran s fer abroad of (1) proceeds f r om the l iqu ida t ion of var ious fore ign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of fore ign loans and credits. The t rans fer of funds owned by emigrants, and payments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in fo re ign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acqu ire, or extend fo re ign agencies or ind iv idua l ly owned firms; earnings acc ru ing f r om such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, to grant commercial 53 AUSTRIA or investment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l i fe insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding para- graphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are con- cluded with the residents of countries with wh ich Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept and to employ abroad foreign funds in con- vertible currencies for a period of up to five years. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents,, without restriction, foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and Austrian securities; in the case of foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions in the case of Austrian external bonds, the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to residents of coun- tries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made in those currencies, whereas payments to residents of countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Residents may sell securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, in accordance with the aforementioned provision to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and through author- ized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an au thor ized bank. Changes during 1964 January 1. Imports f rom GATT countries (except Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, and Japan) of 82 additional tariff items were freed f rom quantitative restriction. March 27. Imports f rom Yugoslavia of 210 additional tar iff items were freed f rom quantitative restriction. May 21. The exchange allocation for residents traveling to coun- tries with wh ich Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies was raised f rom S 15,000 to S 26,000 for each trip. June 1. Imports f rom GATT countries (except Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, and Japan) of 71 additional tar iff items were freed f rom quantitative restriction. July 1. Existing global import quotas were increased by 20 per cent. 54 AUSTRIA October 1. Imports f rom GATT countries (except Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, and Japan) of 80 additional ta r i ff items were f reed f r om quan t i ta t ive restriction. A negative list contained the 52 tariff items wh ich continued to require a license when imported f rom these coun t r ies; 40 of these items were ag r icu l tu ral products, mostly sub- ject to Ma rke t ing Laws. Some of the indus tr ial impor ts rema in ing sub ject to restriction wou ld be l ibera l ized at the end of 1965 and at the end of 1966. October 24. The bilateral paymen ts agreement with Yugoslavia was te rm ina ted, and Yugoslavia was inc luded in the group of coun- tries w i th wh ich settlements were made in conver t ib le currencies. December L Imports f rom Yugoslavia of 153 additional items were f reed f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction. ta r i ff 55 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System The par values are Belgian Francs 50.00 = US$1 and Luxembourg Francs 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —the official and the free. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1; the rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired through the free market may be sold in the official market, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On December 31, 1964, the free market rates for the U.S. dollar were approximately BF 49.67% buying, BF 49.68% selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange markets may be used for settlements with so- called convertible area countries, which include all countries except those in the bilateral group.2 If receipts from bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the official market. Forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies. Any resident or nonresident, banks included, may deal freely in any currency in the free market. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 2 The bilateral group countries are Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. 56 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic U n i o n ); the two countries con- stitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935 conferred on the Joint Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commission the authority to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the Licensing Offices of the BLEU, one of wh ich is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, th rough the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs are involved, through the appro- priate category of nonresident account. All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, wh ich may be summarized as fo l lows: List A covers me rchand ise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of p rocess ing ), and other commercial expenses inc lud ing insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and pub l ic administration paymen ts; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain fore ign long-term investments, and t rans fe rs by emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty; List D covers gifts, l i fe insurance payments, fam i ly maintenance payments, capital investments, l iqu ida- tion of investments, dealings in gold, t rans fe rs by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, fo rw a rd covering of merchand ise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral coun- tries (see foo tno te 2) and the convertible area (a ll other countries). The permissible methods of settlement for fore ign payments are summarized in the accompany ing table. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, there is a choice between the off ic ial and the 57 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG f ree market for convertible currencies received f rom transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxem- bourg f rancs can also be settled through a Financial or a Convertible Accoun t. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, ind iv idual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACT ION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRES IDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Outward Payments A, B, and C Conve r t ib le Any D Conve r t ib le Any A , B;C , a n dD Bilateral Off ic ial or free Free Any Financial Bilateral 3 Inward Payments A a n dB Convertible Convertible Official Convertible C a n dD Convertible Convertible Other Off ic ial or free Free t f Convertible or Financial A, B, C, and D Bilateral Conve r t ib le Off ic ial Convertible or Bilateral 3 Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r a nc accounts of nonresidents are classified as fo l lows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equiva- lent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident. They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements 3 Bilateral Account of the coun try concerned. 58 — — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG wh ich either must or may be made through the o f f ic ial market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the off ic ial market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred f ree ly to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the o f f ic ial or the f ree market. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,4 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements wh ich either must or may be made through the f r ee market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the f ree market and of convertible currencies in the off ic ial market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the f ree market of fore ign banknotes deposited with au thor ized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited free ly to F inanc ial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are f ree. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the f ree market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see foo tno te 2 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settle- ments with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds f r om the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial market. Balances on Bilateral Accoun ts may be t rans fe r red to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. T rans fe rs may be made free ly between Bilateral Accoun ts related to Bu rund i, the Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the au thor i- ties permit the conversion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into fore ign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Ind iv idual licenses are required for (1) a ll imports f rom A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North V ie t-Nam, (2) a few imports f rom Luxembourg into Belgium and vice versa, and (3) a number of imports f rom all other countries. The imports for wh ich ind iv idual licenses are requ ired inc lude mostly agr icu l tural products, food- s tu f f s, coa l, and kerosene. A ll other imports, wh ich constitute about 4 Ind iv idua ls res ident in B u r u n d i, Democra t ic Repub l ic of Congo, or Rwanda are au tho r i z ed to m a i n t a in "assimilated" resident accounts. 59 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG four fifths of total imports, are f ree of license and quantitative restriction. Only a simple fo rm completed by the importer giving no t i f ica t ion of the import is required. Many imports sub ject to individual licensing are also admitted w i thout quantitative restriction. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The au thor ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). If the requirements are not fu l f i l l ed, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permis- sion. Exchange control approval is also required to make payments for imports more than three months before or af ter the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles If payments for invisibles are to be made through the o f f ic ial exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs to a Convertible Accoun t, supporting documents must be presented to an au thor ized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval of the central exchange control authority is required. Payments for other invisibles may be made through the f ree market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few exports f rom Belgium to Luxembourg and vice versa, and (3) specified exports to other countries. All other exports are f ree of license; only a simple fo rm completed by the exporter giving notification of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Special au tho r iza t ion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months a f t er the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, w i th in eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency w i th an au tho r ized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. 60 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies f rom invisibles connected with certain commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the off ic ial exchange m a rk e t ), or, alter- natively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) may be retained or sold in the official or the f ree market. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out freely through the f ree market or by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs through the Financial Account of a nonresident. Direct investments by enter- prises and some capital transfers by individuals, inc lud ing g i f ts, fam i ly maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg na t iona l i ty, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial character, may also be made through the o f f ic ial marke t, subject to individual license. In 'addition, incoming capital may be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the o f f ic ial market may be repatriated through that market. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are f ree, but the financial settlement of such transactions must con fo rm to the general regulations. Changes during 1964 March 3. A ministerial decree eliminated the licensing requirement for nonresidents, who had to p roduce a license only when th is was also required for residents. July 1. Five commodities or groups of commodities were removed f rom the common list of residual import restrictions maintained by the Benelux countries and notified as such to the GATT. These commodities include stearic acid ( s t e a r i n ), oleic acid ( o l e i n ), and certain other acids. October 1. A number of exchange control regulations were mod if ied and s imp l i f ied. The changes inc lude the f o l l ow i n g: (1) Various 61 BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG categories of resident accounts (Commerc ial Accoun ts, Transitory Accounts, Insurance Accounts, and Advance Accounts) were con- verted into a new category of account, Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency. (2) The classification of trade and exchange transactions was mod if ied in accordance with a new statistical codifi- cation. (3) The obligation to surrender to' the Treasury exchange prof i ts rea l ized on foreign currencies purchased spot or fo rwa rd and not utilized for making paymen ts abroad was limited to cases of parity changes resulting in a reduction of the va lue of the Belgian or Luxembourg f r an c. Previously, surrender was required also in respect of any profit resulting from normal market fluctuations. (4) Insurance payments no longer had to be made in the currency stipulated in the contract. October 21. The BLEU ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade with regard to Japan. 62 BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par va lue for the Bo l iv iano was established by Bolivia w i th the Fund. However, exchange t ransac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, free ly fluctuating rate was established by v i r tue of Supreme Decree 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transac t ions are carried out in a f ree market, in wh ich the exchange rate has rema ined stable since Janua ry 1959. On Janua ry 1, 1963, the bo l iv iano was replaced by the Bolivian peso at a rate of Bs l,000 = $b 1.00. For opera t ional purposes, the f ree ma rket is d iv ided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Depar tment of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buying fo r- eign exchange f rom the Government and the o f f ic ial enterprises, inc lud- ing the Bo l iv ian .M in ing Corporation, and selling foreign exchange to the Bank ing Depa r tment of the Central Bank, the banks, the Govern- ment, and its o f f ic ial agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Central Bank on December 31, 1964 was $b 11.875 buying, $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. The Bank ing Department of the Cen tral Bank, the banks, and the fo re ign exchange dealers operate in the private sector, where the exchange rate on December 31, 1964 was $b 11.865 buy ing, $b 11.91 selling, per US$1. All sales of fore ign exchange in the pr iva te sector are sub ject to a 2 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per m i ll stamp tax. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usua l ly made in U.S. do l la rs or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of goods listed under some 35 headings in the Bolivian customs ta r i ff requires the prior authorization of the Ministry of Na t ional Economy. The goods inc lude such items as live cattle, da iry produce and other foods, vegetable fa ts and oils, petro- leum products, rubber tires, and motor vehicles. Goods not listed under the 35 headings may be imported free ly. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the f ree ma rke t, sub ject to the requirement that the commercial documents involved in the transaction are submitted. 63 BOLIVIA Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles and cap i tal t ran s fe rs may be made f r e e ly t h r o u gh the f r ee marke t. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not sub ject to licensing. Exchange receipts f rom exports by o f f ic ial agencies are surrendered to the Central Bank at the f r ee market rate, with the exception of the por t ion retained by the Bolivian M in ing Corpora t ion for its own use. Proceeds f rom other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the f r ee market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be sold in the f ree marke t. Capital Inwa rd and ou twa rd cap i tal t ran s fe rs by residents or nonresidents are f r ee of control and may be made th rough the f ree market. Foreign investments in Bo l iv ia, except those involving pe tro leum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of December 16, 1960, wh ich guarantees the f r ee convertibility and repatriation of p ro f i ts and amor t ized cap i ta l. Companies established be fo re the passage of th is law may also benef it f r om its provisions. Investments in petro- leum and m in ing are governed by the Petroleum Code and the M in ing Code. Changes during 1964 May 7. Restrictions were removed on the import of certain commodi- t ies; these inc luded ma l t, synthetic plastic materials, cellulose ethers and esters, artificial resins, na tural or synthetic rubber, and raw or rendered fat of bee f, mutton, and goat. May 7. The import of add i t ional types of motor vehicles required prior authorization. 64 BRAZIL x Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transac- tions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions other than those in foreign banknotes and in travelers checks take place in a free market operated by the Bank of Brazil and the authorized banks. On January 31, 1965, the free market rates quoted by the Bank of Brazil and by the authorized banks were Cr$l,825 buying, and Cr$l,850 selling, per US$1; these are net rates, since certain small taxes and all charges are for the account of the customer of the bank. In its transactions, the Bank of Brazil applies exchange rates which, in principle, follow those of the authorized banks; however, the Bank of Brazil has from time to time maintained its buying and selling rates unchanged, while those of the authorized banks continued to fluctuate. Rates for convertible currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates indicated above and the dollar quotations for such currencies in international markets. Exchange rates for "agreement currencies," used for settle- ments with bilateral agreement countries, are quoted by the Bank of Brazil 5 per cent below its rates for convertible currencies; exceptions are "agreement dollars" used for settlements with Greece, Israel, Portugal, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R., which are fixed at par with the U.S. dollar, and "agreement sterling" used for settlements with Mainland China, which is fixed at par with the pound sterling. Foreign banknotes and travelers checks are negotiated freely in a separate "manual market." At the end of January 1965, the rates in this market fluctuated around Cr$l,830 per US$1. Other effective rates result from the following: a 15 per cent tax on exchange proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste; a 5 per cent tax on proceeds f rom large-scale exports of cocoa derivatives; various arrangements applicable to the proceeds of exports of coffee (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); a financial charge of 10 per cent on payments for imports subject to advance deposit; a financial charge "of 30 per cent on financial transfers subject to advance deposit; an advance deposit of 50 per cent, and a guarantee deposit of 10 per cent to 100 per cent, of the value of the exchange sold for almost all private imports and 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position resulting from those changes; the exchange rates given are as at January 31,1965. 65 BRAZIL private f inanc ial t r an s f e r s; and the practice of selling fore ign exchange for payments for imports of petroleum and its products to Petrobras (national petroleum agency) at the Bank of Brazil's selling rate prevailing at the beginning of the contracting period (usually a calendar qua r te r) in wh ich the import was purchased. In general, exchange to cover imports is sold on a fo rwa rd basis, generally at 120 days, while purchases of exchange are on a shorter basis, f requen t ly spot. Foreign exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The exchange houses may deal only in travelers checks and banknotes. The Bank of Braz il carries out a large proportion of all exchange transactions. Tt is entitled to receive, directly or ind irec t ly, all exchange proceeds from exports of sugar, pe tro leum, and iron ore and at least 90 per cent of the proceeds f r om exports of coffee. It handles almost two th irds of total exchange sales for (1) payments for imports of wheat and petroleum, parts and accessories for the use of Petrobras, newsprint, and, in practice, certain private imports up to specified limits wh ich are set by the Director of the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil, and (2) the Bank's commitments to service government financial obligations and to make other non trade pay- ments at the free market rate. In addition, all transactions in bilateral currencies are made through the Bank of B raz i l, either direct or with an authorized bank acting as an intermediary. Foreign exchange purchased by the Bank is not resold to au thor ized banks, w i th the exception of bilateral currencies. Au thor ized banks hand le most of the f ree market exchange pu r- chases not specifically reserved for the Bank of Brazil. In practice, they also purchase foreign exchange f rom most exporters of coffee, but they must resell at least 90 per cent of the coffee exporters' portion of exchange proceeds to the Bank of B raz i l, and also t rans fer to the Bank of Brazil, for the account of the Superintendency of Money and Credit (SUMOC ), the required "contribution" of foreign exchange surrendered by the exporters without cruzeiro compensation. They are not perm i t ted to sell fore ign exchange to one another. Subject to certain conditions, exchange held by an authorized bank may be used by its branches in d ifferent cities. Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Bank of Braz il under the direction of the Council of SUMOC. The Exchange Department of the Bank exercises over-all supervision of the operations of the foreign exchange market. Through a unit within the Department 66 BRAZIL (F IBAN ), it enforces controls and restrictions. The Department- also organizes the auctions of promessas de licenqa (wh ich entitle the ho lder to receive an import license for Special Category impo r t s ), and establishes the total value of promessas de licenqa on the basis of criteria approved by the Council of SUMOC and with the advice of the Foreign Trade Depar tment of the Bank (CACEX ). Government departments and public entities are requested to present to the Exchange Department quarterly or semiannual esti- mates of their needs for imports and service payments. These are reviewed by the Council of SUMOC be fo re being incorporated in the fore ign exchange budget. CACEX issues export and import licenses and verifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifications, and types in export and import operations that are sub ject to license. The Customs Policy Council decides on changes in the categories of import commodities. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the coun try of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agreement countries are made through the relevant agreement accounts. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Portugal, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; in Danish kroner with Denma rk; and in clearing sterling with Iceland and Mainland China. On the basis of provisions for the settlement with certain non- clearing countries of outstanding balances or transactions under bilateral agreements now terminated, a few payments with these countries are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Brazilian exports of co f fee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Import procedures depend on whe ther the goods belong to the Gen- eral Category or the Special Category. The commodities listed in the General Category are mainly raw materials, equipment goods, spare parts, and some essential goods not produced in Brazil in suff ic ient quantities. All other commodities are in the Special Category. 67 BRAZIL Secondhand goods, if included in the General Category when new, may be imported only if they are (1) certified to be in good operating condition, (2) not obsolete, (3) to be used by the importer himself, and (4) considered to contribute directly to domestic produc- tive process. Imports of new automobiles and recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 are prohibited. General Category imports are free of quantitative restriction. However, to obtain a visa f rom the Braz i l ian consular authorities abroad (wh ich is required prior to shipment of the goods) and to clear the goods through customs, the importer must first obtain a "certificate of exchange cover/' which is issued by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil, subject to the following condi- tions: (1) The importer must have closed an exchange contract with the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank, for no more than 180 days, for the fu ll value of the import. As a rule, at present, foreign exchange is not sold for less than 120 days. (2) The importer must provide evidence that, w i th in 5 days of the closing of the contract, a deposit in cruzeiros equivalent to 50 per cent and a financial charge equivalent to 10 per cent of the contract have been paid to the Bank of Brazil. Specified imports 2 require neither an advance deposit nor payment of the financial charge. Thirty days a f ter the deposit is made the importer receives, against the deposit, Bank of Brazil notes for an equal amount, ma tu r ing in 180 days and carrying no interest. (3) CACEX must be supplied with in fo rma t ion on the fore ign prices of the goods and any other informa t ion wh ich the Department may consider necessary. At the time the importer closes the exchange contract with the Bank of Braz il or a commercial bank, he is required to place as a guarantee deposit with the respective bank 100 per cent of the value of the foreign exchange, if the contract is concluded in convertible currencies. If the contract is concluded in convertible exchange with the Bank of Brazil, the guarantee deposit is reduced to the following: 10 per cent for contracts covering imports of newsprint and paper stock for books; 20 per cent for fer t i l izers, insecticides, and seeds; and 50 per cent for petroleum. For payments in agreement currencies, the required guarantee deposit is 20 per cent or, if a letter of credit is opened, 100 per cent. When the contracts are liquidated, deposits may be used for payment for foreign exchange. Each importer may purchase no more than US$50,000 in con- vertible currencies, and no more than US$50,000 in bilateral agree- 2 These goods are listed in Announcement No. 22 of May 29, 1964 of the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil, as amended f rom time to time. 68 BRAZIL ment currencies, in any one week. However, to the extent that his purchases of convertible exchange fa ll short of US$50,000, an importer may acquire bilateral agreement currencies in addition to the US$50,000 limit; thus, the combined limit is US$100,000 weekly. These limits do not apply to imports included in the National List of Brazil from countries of the Latin American Free Trade Associa- tion, to imports in the Special Category, to certain imports for the use of Brazilian firms up to a value of 50 per cent of the exports of listed industrial products of such firms, or to imports covered by foreign loans with more than a 20-year repayment period. The limits may be waived by the Bank of Brazil, and a waiver is normally granted to importers who in the past have customarily imported goods in average weekly amounts larger than these limits. Special Category imports are subject to global quotas. They represent a minor proportion of total imports. Importers are required to obtain an import license from CACEX, and for this purpose they must purchase a promessa de licenqa on a stock exchange, where promessas are offered in global amounts for auction. Importers must also comply with the requirements established for obtaining a "certificate of exchange cover" for General Category imports, as described above. The procedure for the auction of the promessas de licenqa is as follows: Each week the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil determines the amount to be offered at auction. The promessas are expressed in only two currencies, "free U.S. dollars" and "agreement dollars," and are offered in lots of US$100 and US$500. The mini- mum bids for auctions of promessas are, for those expressed in free U.S. dollars, an amount equal to the current Bank of Brazil selling rate for U.S. dollars, and for those expressed in agreement dollars, an amount equal to the average premium paid in recent auctions for promessas in free U.S. dollars. Within 3 business days, beginning 48 hours after the date of the auction, a successful bidder must pay the price of the promessa to the Bank of Brazil. The promessa is valid for 30 days, and within this period the importer must close an exchange contract for the payment of the import. A promessa entitles the holder to obtain import licenses for a total value equal to the amount of the promessa. Promessas in agreement dollars are valid for imports from any bilateral payments agreement country, while promessas in free U.S. dollars are valid for imports from any other country. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports (petroleum, wheat, newsprint, maps, books, magazines, and newspapers) and 69 BRAZIL imports with foreign f inanc ing. Foreign exchange to pay for these imports is purchased, as a ru le, f rom the Bank of Brazil. Payments for invisibles All paymen ts for current invisibles are made at freely negotiated rates and are subject to the approval of FIB AN. In add i t ion, repatriation of capital and remittances on account of income f rom fore ign capital, royalties, and technical, scientific, and administrative assistance are normally allowed only where the foreign capital con- cerned, and the contracts for patents, trademarks, and technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered in accordance with established ru les; in no circumstances may such payments be afforded more favorab le conditions than are granted for General Category imports. Remittances of profits and dividends in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvestments are subject to supplementary income tax at rates ranging f rom 40 per cent to 60 per cent. The t rans fer of income f rom foreign investment employed in the production of goods or services for luxury consumption is allowed up to 8 per cent annua l ly of registered foreign capital. When serious disequilibrium in the balance of payments exists, or is anticipated, the Council of SUMOC is required to prohibit repatriation of foreign capital, and may limit the remittance of prof i ts and dividends to 10 per cent annually of the registered capital and reinvestments (5 per cent for investment in production for luxury consump t ion ), and may limit total annual transfers of royalties and fees for techn ica l, scientific, and administrative assistance to 5 per cent of the company's gross receipts. Remittances on the basis of contracts for technical, scientific, or administrative assistance may be made only for the first 5 years of the operation of the enterprise in Brazil or for 5 years f rom the date of the application of the special production process; this period may be extended for 5 years by the Council of SUMOC. The Bank of Braz i l, in practice, sells foreign exchange only for current invisibles related to those trade transactions for which it has closed an exchange contract, and for nontrade transactions wh ich have been given exemption f rom the normal requirements for advance deposits and financial charges. The authorized banks, through which all other payments for current invisibles are made, are obliged to keep weekly sales of exchange for payments within any periodic limits set by SUMOC and to require proof of payment of any appli- cable income tax. In addition, payments for invisibles not related to contractual obligations require specific jus t if ica t ion for amounts in excess of normal allowances fixed for various purposes (rang ing f rom US$250 a trip up to US$500 a month for foreign travel, and US$100 70 BRAZIL a month for remittances by imm igran ts). Banks sell exchange for travel expenses only to travelers, upon presentation of valid passports with an exit visa and tickets marked va l id for no more than 15 days. Payments for current invisibles other than those specifically ex- empted 3 are sub ject to an advance deposit equal to 50 per cent, and to a f inanc ial charge of 30 per cent, of the amounts of the exchange contracts. Payments for invisibles are covered by the same procedure as that applicable to import payments (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above) and are subject to guarantee deposit requirements amounting to 100 per cent when contracts are in con- vertible currencies and 20 per cent when they are in agreement currencies (100 per cent if a letter of credit is opened ). Letters of credit opened for payment in inconvertible or "agree- ment" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must contain a clause requiring that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of Braz il or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and fore ign banknotes f r e e ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, with the exception of exports of co f fee, wh ich require au thor iza t ion by the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute. Export licenses are granted without limitation except when (1) the export is contrary to the national security or to obligations arising f rom international agreements, (2) payment is to be received in an inconvertible currency, the acceptance of which is considered by FIBAN to be undesirable, or (3) it is considered necessary to guarantee adequate domestic supplies of the goods concerned. Restric- tions on account of the last-mentioned reason are limited to a few products. All exports are sub ject to shipping permits issued by FIBAN. To obtain this permit it is necessary to present the export license ( f or coffee, the au thor iza t ion of the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute) and evidence that the exchange proceeds have been negotiated through an author- ized bank or the Bank of Brazil. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price in fo re ign currency fixed by the Institute .4 Exporters of coffee are 3 The exemptions are listed in Announcement No. 22 of May 29, 1964 of the Exchange Depar tment of the Bank of Brazil, as amended f rom time to t ime. 4 The m in imum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 71 BRAZIL required to surrender without compensation a portion ("contribution" or quota de contribuiQdo) of their foreign exchange receipts;5 the cruzeiro equivalent of this portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribution quota, exporters receive (1) payment of a fixed cruzeiro amount per b a g6 and (2) payment of the fu ll cruzeiro equivalent at the free market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the minimum registration price. All other exports are sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and large-scale exporters of cocoa derivatives are required to surrender without compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. Industrial firms exporting designated products of their own manu- facture may use up to 50 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds, without making an advance deposit or paying the financial charge, to cover their own import requirements or to pay their own financial obligations abroad that have been registered with SUMOC, subject to certain conditions. Exports of consumer durable goods and capital goods for which payment is to be made in convertible currency on a medium-term or long-term basis may be licensed by CACEX, provided that (1) the financing in foreign currency does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoice value and (2) information is furnished about the transaction and, in particular, about guarantees given by the importer. For transactions with payment terms in excess of 360 days, CACEX may refinance the fu ll amount payable in the first 360 days and 75 per cent of the remainder. A refinancing by the Exchange Department of the whole of the credit granted by the exporter is also provided fo r, but only for transactions with payment terms not exceeding 360 days. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil is authorized, in connection with the refinancing by CACEX mentioned above, to place in foreign financial markets securities in foreign currencies not exceeding US$50 million, with a maturity not exceeding 7 years. 5 The amount of the contribution depends upon the applicable minimum registration price, the fixed cruzeiro amount paid per bag, and the current buying rate of the Bank of Brazil. 8 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 72 BRAZIL Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the au tho r ized banks at free ly negotiated rates. Travelers checks and fore ign banknotes are sold in a separate f ree market, the "manual market ." Travelers may b r ing in domestic and fore ign currency notes free ly. Capital For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, fore ign capital and the reinvestment of p ro f i ts on foreign capital must be registered w i th SUMOC. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, mach ine ry, and equ ipment wh ich have entered the country w i thout a corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for invest- ment in economic pursuits, provided tha t, in either case, the owner is a resident domiciled or with headqua r te rs abroad. Foreign capital is c lass if ied as investments, loans, and financing. Investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of corporate capital and par t ic ipa tes directly in the risk inherent in an economic under tak ing. Loans are considered to be foreign capital that is not part of the corporate cap i tal of any enterprise and which does not participate directly in capital risk. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whe ther conceded by the manu- f a c tu r er h imse lf or a th i rd par ty, is considered to be financing. To register fo re ign capital, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Braz i l. To register loans and financing that are made in fore ign currency, it is necessary to cer t ify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. The registration of financing (usually known as suppliers' credits) requires the prior authorization of SUMOC, on advice f rom CACEX and the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil. The registration of direct investment is subject to the fo l low ing ru les: The capital that enters or has entered Braz il is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments, defined as the unremitted portion of remittable earnings, are 'registered simultaneously in cruzeiros and in the currency of the country to wh ich the profits could have been remitted, calculated at the rate of exchange du r ing the period of reinvestment. The reimportation into Brazil of remitted earnings of fo re ign cap i tal is registered in fore ign currency. Remittances for 73 BRAZIL the repatriation of foreign investment are allowed when the foreign capital concerned is registered and when SUMOC neither has found nor anticipates a serious disequilibrium in the balance of payments. To provide a more normal basis for the supply of working capital in Brazil by foreign investors, the Bank of Brazil enters into repur- chase arrangements which provide that the seller of foreign exchange may subsequently repurchase equivalent foreign exchange, free of the financial charge and free of requirements of advance or guarantee deposits, and that the procedure for registration with SUMOC to satisfy the requirements of the Profit Remittance Law will be both immediate and automatic. The repurchase must be a spot or forward transaction in the free market with any authorized bank (or with the Bank of Brazil if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part after 90 days but will expire after 360 days. All capital transfers abroad are subject to the approval of FIB AN. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at freely negotiated rates; outward transfers, unless made under the terms of a repurchase contract, are subject to payment of a 30 per cent financial charge and a 50 per cent advance deposit. Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 31,1965) 7 (cruzeiros per UJS. dollar) Buying 1,551 (Free Market Rate less 15%Y Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 1,734 (Free Market Rate less 6%)8 Large-scale exports of cocoa derivatives. 1,820 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and incoming travelers checks. 1,825 (Free Market Rate)8'9 Proceeds from exports of coffee in excess of the contribution quota. Other exports except cocoa beans, cocoa paste, and cocoa derivatives. Other receipts not negotiated in the "manual market." For footnotes, see page 75. 74 Setting 1,840 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes. 1,850 (Free Market Rate)8'10 Imports and invisibles exempt from advance deposit requirements. 2,035 (Free Market Rate plus 10% Financial Charge)8 Imports subject to advance deposit. 2,405 (Free Market Rate plus 30% Financial Charge)8 Financial transfers subject to advance deposit. BRAZIL Changes during 1964 January 21. Decree 53451 put into e f fect detailed regulations for the implementation of the Prof it Remittance Law. February 19. By SUMOC Instruction 263, a new exchange system was in t roduced based on two markets: (1) a "special" market with fixed rates app l icab le to proceeds f r om exports of co f fee, sugar, and pe tro leum, and to payments for imports of petroleum, wheat, and (temporarily) newsprint, as well as for specified financial obliga- tions and (2) a f ree market with a fluctuating rate for all other duly authorized transactions. The exemption f r om the advance deposit requirement for remittances for invisibles of up to US$100 was abolished. A system of bonuses for exports of designated m anu f a c tu r ed products was also discontinued, under implementing regulations. February 20. By SUMOC Ins t ruc t ion 264, the export by travelers of fore ign and domestic banknotes in excess of US$2,000 or its equivalent and of va luab les not for personal use was, in accordance with Decree 53451, made sub ject to registration with SUMOC and prior au tho r iza- tion by the Bank of Braz i l. May 9. By SUMOC Ins truc t ion 270, the special rates of Cr$600 buying, and Cr$620 selling, per US$1 were discontinued for imports of whea t, newspr in t, and petroleum and other imports of Petrobras, for financial remittances for the servicing of the Brazilian foreign debt and of o f f ic ial debts to the In terna t ional Monetary Fund, U.S. agencies, and the like, and for exports of sugar and pe t ro leum; Footnotes to Table of Exchange Rates 7 The free market rates listed in this table are exclusive of the cost of stamp taxes and other charges; their combined cost is about Cr$22 per US$1 on each purchase or sale in the free ma rke t. In the "manual ma rke t" transactions are exempt f rom stamp tax and quotations are inclusive of charges. The f ree market selling rates listed do not inc lude the cost of the advance deposits and /or guarantee deposits required as a condition for e f f e c t ing most impor ts and most transfers in respect of invisibles. 8 Rates applicable to "agreement currencies" used for settlements w i th bilateral agreement countries other than Ma in land Ch ina, Greece, Israe l, Po r tuga l, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are determined by deducting 5 per cent f r om the f ree market rates for convertible currencies. 9 A substantial portion of exchange receipts f rom the export of co f fee (con t r ibu- tion quo t a) must be surrendered w i thout compensation accord ing to complex regulations. The e f f e c t ive exchange rate varies w i th the grade of co f fee, port of sh ipmen t, excess (if any) of the foreign price above the re levant m in imum registration price, and, to the ex tent th at there is an excess above the m in imum reg is tra t ion price, w i th the f ree market buying ra te. As an example, for coffee of the most common export grade sold at the m in imum registration price of US$0.43 per pound and shipped f rom Santos, the e f f e c t ive exchange ra te is Cr$793 per US$1. 10 Exchange for imports of pe t ro leum and m a j or pe tro leum produc ts by Petrobras is sold at the Bank of Brazil's selling ra te prevailing at the beginning of the con trac t ing period (u su a l ly a calendar qua r te r) in which the import was purchased. 75 BRAZIL hence fo r th, these transactions would take place at the f r ee ma rket ra te, except for imports of petroleum and most of its by-products. For imports of petroleum and its by-produc ts other than fu el oil and liquid gas, exchange requirements could be covered at a rate fixed for quarterly periods by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil. Fuel oil and l iqu id gas became sub ject to a separate, less depreciated selling rate set by the Bank of Braz il that would apply until the end of the calendar quarter. June 2. By SUMOC Instruction 272 and accompanying regulations, the free market buy ing rate was made app l icab le, in pr inc ip le, to receipts f rom coffee exports. The exchange proceeds cou ld be sold to the Bank of Braz il or to a comme rc ial bank at the respective free market rates quoted by them, subject to the fo l low ing conditions. Coffee exports would con t inue to be sub ject to m in imum registration prices set f rom time to time by the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute and to contributions (re ten t ions) w i thout cruze iro payment fixed at US$22.50 per 60-kilogram bag on the new crop and at US$28.00 on old crops. The con tr ibu t ions would be sub ject to upw a rd a d j u s tm e nt to p r e c l u de exporters f r om receiving larger cruze iro proceeds per bag on exports at m in imum registration prices if the free market rate quo ted by the Bank of Brazil should depreciate beyond Cr$l,210 per US$1. Prev ious ly, co f fee exporters received a fixed c ruze i ro amount per bag co r respond ing to a pre-established price in U.S. dollars and a bonus added to the special market exchange rate for any fo re ign exchange su r rende red in excess of this price. June 25. By Decree 53982, the exclusive r ight of Pe trobras to import crude oil and m a j or petroleum produc ts was con f i rmed. Petrobras wou ld requ ire its m a j or fo re ign supp l iers to guarantee the exportation of listed m anu f a c tu r ed products equ iva lent in va lue to at least 20 per cent of the petroleum impor ts to be made. All exchange contracts under this guarantee system had to be concluded with the Bank of B r a z i l; payment of the designated po r t ion of the invoice va lue of the pe tro leum imports was made dependent not only upon completion of the import sh ipment and of the cruzeiro payment required for it, but also upon ac tual receipt of payment in foreign currency for the designated Braz i l ian exports w i th an f .o .b. va lue equal to the exchange released. August 3. By SUMOC Instruction 275, the advance deposit requ ire- ments of 100 per cent and 200 per cent for imports, of 200 per cent for film rental payments, and of 100 per cent for other financial transfers were revised. Advance deposits of 60 per cent were required for all commodity imports and of 100 per cent for film ren tal payments, wh i le the 100 per cent requ irement for other financial 76 BRAZIL transfers was maintained. Payment of a 20 per cent financial charge was required on all exchange purchases subject to an advance deposit requirement. August 29. By Law No. 4390, amending Law No. 4131 of September 3, 1962 (the Profit Remittance Law) and revoking Decree 53451, more favorable treatment of foreign capital was provided. (1) Registration of reinvestments would be made, not only in cruzeiros, but also in the currency of the country to which remittance could have been made, at the exchange rate prevailing for the period in which the reinvestment was made. (2) Provisional transfers relating to certain profits and certain debts, in cases of registration applied for but not yet granted or refused, would be authorized ad hoc. (3) When SUMOC found or anticipated serious disequilibrium in the balance of payments, the repatriation of foreign capital would be prohibited, and the annual remittance of profits restricted, normally to 10 per cent of registered capital and reinvestments; under the same circumstances, remittance of royalties and fees for technical and other assistance could be limited to 5 per cent of gross receipts annua l ly. (4) Remittances of profits and dividends in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and reinvestments were made subject to supplementary income tax on a scale rising from 40 per cent to 60 per cent. (5) Exports of foreign and domestic banknotes by travelers were no longer limited to US$2,000 or its equivalent. September 6. Settlements relating to frontier trade with Paraguay could no longer be effected in cruzeiros. September 9. By SUMOC Instruction 276, the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil was authorized to license the import of used machinery meeting specified requirements under the procedure provided for General Category imports, rather than under the Special Category procedure otherwise applicable. September 9. By SUMOC Instruction 277, the advance deposit percentages established on August 3 were reduced, effective Octo- ber 1, 1964, f rom 60 per cent to 50 per cent for imports, and from 100 per cent to 90 per cent for financial transfers (including film rental paymen ts ). September 10. By SUMOC Instruction 279, enterprises that exported designated manu fac tu red products were given the right to use up to 50 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds, without mak ing an advance deposit or paying the financial charge, to cover their own import requirements or to pay their own foreign financial obligations, sub ject to a number of conditions provided for in the Instruction and implementing regulations. 77 BRAZIL September 10. Upon au thor iza t ion of the SUMOC Council, the Bank of Braz i l, by FIBAN Circular 585, instructed banks to collect guaran tee deposits of 100 per cent of the va lue of exchange con- tracts, in addition to any advance deposit and financial charge required f r om all purchasers of convertible fore ign exchange. September 22. The f inanc ial charge on all exchange contracts sub- ject to advance deposit requ iremen ts was increased f rom 20 per cent to 30 per cent. November 30. Law No. 4505 exempted f rom the 1 per cent stamp tax all operations in the "manual ma rke t /' including the purchase of travelers checks. December 1. SUMOC Instruction 283 introduced the fo l low ing new regulations for proceeds f rom coffee exports, wh ich, together with other determinations made at the same time, resulted in a depreciation of the effec t ive rates for various grades. The Braz i l ian Coffee Institute established a minimum cruzeiro payment per bag payab le by banks to exporters and vary ing according to grade and port of shipment. Exchange proceeds in excess of the minimum registra- tion price could be sold at the f ree market buy ing rate. The balance of the export proceeds —total exchange proceeds minus exchange received in excess of the minimum surrender price minus an amount (ca lcu la ted at the f ree market rate) corresponding to the m in imum cruze iro payment to the exporter —was to be surrendered as a "con tr ibu t ion ," w i thout compensation, w i th its equivalent in cruzeiros to be t rans fe r red to the Coffee Defense Fund. Up to 10 per cent of the d i f fe rence between to tal export proceeds and the "contribution" could be retained by the intermediary bank, wh ich was requ ired to resell at least 90 per cent to the Bank of Brazil. December 24. By SUMOC Instruction 285, the advance deposit requirement for f inanc ial transfers ( inc lud ing f i lm rentals) was reduced to 50 per cent. The financial charge on purchases of exchange for import payments was reduced to 10 per cent. December 26. By SUMOC Instruction 286, f r ee market buy ing and selling rates were required to be quoted on a net basis, the applicable stamp tax and expenses to be charged separately to the purchasers or sellers concerned. Previously, the tax and expenses had been absorbed in the quoted buying and selling rates. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place in 1965: January 14. By SUMOC Instruction 287, the limit on weekly pu r- chases by any one firm of convertible foreign exchange for import 78 BRAZIL paymen ts was increased f r om US$30,000 to US$50,000. Implement- ing regulations increased the corresponding weekly limit for bilateral agreement currencies f rom US$20,000 to US$50,000, and for con- vertible and agreement currencies combined from US$50,000 to US$100,000. Excluded f rom these limits were impor ts financed with fore ign loans for periods of more than 20 years. January 14. By SUMOC Instruction 289, the Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Braz il was authorized, upon effec t ing purchases of fo re ign cu r rency, to guarantee to the seller the right to repu rchase fo re ign exchange up to the same amount. The repur- chase could be made f r om any au tho r ized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the free market rate prevailing at the moment of the repurchase. Registration of the transaction for purposes of the Profit Remittance Law wou ld be automatic. Repurchases were exempt f rom advance deposit and guarantee deposit requirements and f rom the financial charge. The Bank of Brazil issued regulations providing that the r ight of repurchase might be exercised at any time a f t er 90 days and up to 360 days. Permitted use of the procedure included transactions related to repa tr ia t ion under the terms of a temporary amnesty of undec la red resident-owned capital held abroad. The terms on wh ich the Bank of B raz il o f fe red swap loans were t igh tened; in pa r t icu la r, new or renewed swap loans were required to be accom- panied by a repurchase contract at least equal in value. 79 BRITISH GUIANA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is West Indian Dollars 1.71429 = US$1. The West Ind ian do l lar is issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board and has a fixed re la t ionsh ip to sterling of BWI$4.80 — fl .1 The banks in British Gu iana base the rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Governor and the Minister of Finance. Authority for approving no rmal import pay- ments and providing allocations of fo re ign exchange for other current payments is delegated to the two banks au thor ized for this purpose. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency British Guiana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requ iremen ts similar to those of the United K ingdom. Au thor ized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing paymen ts for imports, by residents of British Guiana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in any fo re ign currency or by crediting WTest Indian dollars or sterling to an External Accoun t. Receipts f r om countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in any fo re ign currency or in sterling or West Ind ian dollars f rom an External Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of British Gu iana: External (Sterling A rea) Accounts, External (Non-Sterling A rea) Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External (Sterling Area) Accounts are held by residents of Sterling Area countries other than British Guiana. They may be credited with all authorized paymen ts by residents of British Gu iana to other Sterling Area countries and with t ran s fe rs f r om other External (Sterling Area) Accoun t s; other credits requ ire approval. They may be debited for 1 The Currency Board issues the West Indian dollar also in Barbados, Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and Windward Islands, and there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas. 80 BRITISH GUIANA payments for any purpose due from residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to residents of British Guiana, for transfers to other External (Sterling Area) Accounts in British Guiana, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is in British Guiana; other debits require approval. External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts are held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of British Guiana to the residents of countries outside the Sterling Area and with transfers f rom other External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for any payments due f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area to residents of British Guiana, for transfers to other External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts in British Guiana, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in British Guiana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports sub ject to individual licensing cover a wide range; they include coffee, sugar, vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fue ls, building materials, gold, diamonds and jewelry, and firearms. The granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; at the end of 1964, licenses were not being issued for some of the categories mentioned above. Other goods may be imported under an open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceeding BWI$240. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval, which is given freely. As a working rule, limits are usually applied to certain payments on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (BWI$666), for education at schools abroad (BWI$3,360 for each ch i ld ), for education at universi- ties and comparable institutions (BWI$4,800 for each student), and for fam i ly maintenance (BWI$4,800). 81 BRITISH GUIANA Travelers going abroad may take with them West Indian currency notes not exceeding BWI$100; these notes do not fo rm part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, notes to the va lue of BWI$50 may be taken out in the fo rm of fo re ign currency notes as part of any travel exchange allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are f ree of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies,2 surrendered. Exchange control fo rms have to be completed only for exports exceeding BWI$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in the specified currencies on account of invisibles must be sold to an au thor ized bank. Travelers may bring in any currency notes free ly. Capital New investments by nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control. Such approval is normally given for direct invest- ments in new projects that would benefit British Gu i an a; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital increments, may be repatriated in f u l l. Finance institutions (other than banks) and l ife insurance com- panies, both local and fore ign, are required to invest locally 75 per cent of their newly acquired resources. These companies are also required over a period of ten years f rom December 1961 to bring their existing local investments to 75 per cent of their total resources. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Specified currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Changes during 1964 During the course of the year, some imports were freed from, and others were made subject to, individual licensing. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 82 BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Burmese Kyats 4.76190 = US$1. The kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 = £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling rate and the rates for other currencies in the London exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board. All imports and exports are handled by various government agencies under the Ministry of Supply and Cooperative and the Ministry of Trade Development. Prescription of Currency Burma is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area are made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Mainland China, with which Burma has a bilateral payments agreement, are made through a clearing account denominated in sterling. Payments to other countries may be made in sterling through an External Account, in any non-Sterling Area currency, or by crediting kyats to the account of a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Pre- scription of currency requirements for receipts are the same as those for payments, except that if foreign currency is obtained it must be one of the specified currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are made by the Government and government agencies. Most consumer goods are imported by the Peoples Stores Corporation. Imports from South A f r i ca are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities —principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. Authorized banks will automatically provide exchange (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) to pay for permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade that is handled solely by state agencies are allowed automatically, and payments for other 83 BURMA purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment have been temporarily suspended. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices a fe not permitted. Foreign exchange for tourist travel by residents requires individual licenses; allocations for this purpose are, however, temporarily sus- pended. However, residents granted an off ic ial permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one four th of the amount of fore ign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by government agencies. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps the reo f, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin wh ich it is desired to conserve for domestic requirements. All exports to South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities, and the exchange must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in, sub ject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959, and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and gener- ally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, since February 15, 1963 when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for setting up new private industries. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the withdrawal of imported capital at any time af ter 84 BURMA five years f rom the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. Proceeds f rom the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be t rans fe r red abroad. All such transfers may be made at the official rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the trans- action. The repatriation of personal assets and fam i ly remittances has been temporarily suspended for foreign nationals employed in the private sector. When the t ran s fer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to blocked accounts. The use of balances on blocked accounts is subject to individual permit. Residents are not usually permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The import, export, and t rans fer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Changes during 1964 February 1. Foreign insurance companies were no longer allowed to undertake general insurance business. April 11. The Government announced the complete nationalization of the export trade and took over all sectors of that trade still in private hands. 85 BURUNDI1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Burundi Francs 87.50 = US$1. This rate is appli- cable to all transactions. The official rates on February 11, 1965 were FBu 86.50 buying, and FBu 87.20 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of the Kingdom of Burundi for currencies quoted by that b a n k2 and at rates fixed freely with their customers for certain other currencies.3 Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Kingdom of Burund i; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the King- dom of Burundi. Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely. Applications for licenses in amounts of FBu 100,000 or more must be submitted to the Bank of the Kingdom of Burundi, through an authorized bank, on a form entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. Applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expira- tion must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Con- sumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. 1 In view of the changes made early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 11,1965. 2 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 These currencies are Angolan escudos, East African shillings, Rhodesian pounds, and South African rand. 86 BURUNDI Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required from importers obtaining in a calendar year import licenses valued at FBu 100,000 or over. The required deposit is 20 per cent for specified essential producer and consumer goods, 50 per cent for other specified essential goods, and 100 per cent for all other commodities. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of up to two thirds of salaries and emoluments of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes. For unincorporated busi- nesses and professional persons, transfers are freely permitted of two thirds of income earned a f ter the introduction in February 1965 of the new exchange system. Companies may freely transfer their net income a f t er taxes for the period beginning January 1, 1965. Transfers of accumulated earnings accrued prior to 1965 by persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Transfer of income f rom rental properties to nonresident owners is permitted a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of normal mainte- nance expenses; resident owners may remit two thirds of such income. Residents may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank. It is valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 90 days a f ter the goods have left the country. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Capital The Investment Code of August 6, 1963 stipulates the rules under which domestic and foreign private investments may be made in Burundi. Investments of foreign capital are permitted in the form of participation through the acquisition of shares and loans granted for a 87 BURUNDI period exceeding five years and constituting a determining financial element in a firm established in Burundi. Investments in specified existing economic activities (e.g., indus- trial development, farm ing, fisheries, tourist industries), as well as new investments in activities that fulfill certain conditions relating to the realization of the economic development plan, may be accorded specified priority rights. Such rights consist mainly of exemptions f rom import duties and f rom taxes on income f rom investments. Moreover, certain of the above enterprises, when expanding their activities, may be granted additional concessions. Applications for priority status must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who fo rwa rds them to an Investment Commission. Recognition of priority status is granted by a royal decree. Foreign capital, as defined above, which is invested in a priority enterprise, may be repatriated af ter five years. The transfer of profits and interest of up to 5 per cent per annum of the invested capital is permitted. Capital transfers by residents require which is rarely given. individual authorization, Changes during 1964 January 28. Imports of used and new clothing, meat, butter, soap, matches, and spare parts were sh i f ted f rom List A to List B. February 17. A 5 per cent tax was introduced on exchange pur- chases for all imports. The exchange taxes levied according to a law of May 31, 1963 on specified financial transfers and amounting to 6, 8, and 10 per cent were abo l ished; an exchange tax levied at a flat rate of 20 per cent on the same categories of transfers was substituted. May 11. The allocation of official exchange for transfers of salaries of foreign nationals was resumed, subject to a maximum of FBu 10,000 a month a person. May 19. The newly established central bank, the Bank of the Kingdom of Burundi, started issuing the Burundi f ranc. October 27. Transfers of salaries of foreign nationals were per- mitted up to FBu 14,000 a month a person. NOTE.—The following changes took place in 1965: January 26. An initial par value of FBu 87.5000 per US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. February 11. All exchange transactions were hence fo r th to take place within prescribed margins of the par value in replacement of the system 88 BURUNDI of multiple currency practices previously in force. The free market, in wh ich the rate was about FBu 117.00 per US$1 in December 1964, was abolished, as were the 5 per cent and 20 per cent exchange taxes, wh ich had resulted in effective selling rates of about FBu 52.50, FBu 60.00, and FBu 122.85 per US$1 in addition to the official rate of FBu 50.00 per US$1. February 11. Restrictions on payments for certain current invisibles were relaxed. February 11. Quantitative restrictions on imports were abolished; advance deposits of 20 per cent, 50 per cent, or 100 per cent of the c . i .f. value were hencefor th required for all imports. Customs duties were increased on goods former ly imported with free market exchange 89 CAMBODIA *• 2 Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Kiel is def ined as a monetary unit containing 0.0253905 gram of fine gold. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling are carried out at parity rates based on the gold content of the riel and the respective currencies; these rates are Riels 35 = US$1 and Riels 98 = £1. The o f f ic ial parity for the French f ranc, however, is fixed at Riels 10 = F 1. Sales and purchases of fore ign banknotes quoted on the Phnom- Penh off ic ial market are made at the selling rate plus 3 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empow- ered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mutually agreed with their customers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted off ic ia l ly or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cambodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible currencies may be authorized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambod ia; this office is empowered to authorize all operations related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. Authorized banks are permitted to carry out specified exchange con- trol operations. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation (Societe Nationals ^Exportation et ^Importation or SONEXIM). The Ministry of National Economy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to SONEXIM. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to the customs. 1 Cambodia is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 In view of the changes that took place on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 90 CAMBODIA Prescription of Currency Settlements with ten countries with which Cambodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria, North Korea, the Republic of Viet- Nam, and Yugoslavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports f rom other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds f rom the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The fo l low ing categories of account may be maintained for non- residents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Non- resident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresidents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not recognized as residents, may maintain special Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom-Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) pay- ments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account ho lde r; (3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cambodian stocks and bonds and on other investments made in Cambodia after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited on account of normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phnom-Penh market of banknotes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made f ree ly. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds f rom the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported f rom abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the 91 CAMBODIA country of the account ho lder; (2) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since January 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange O f f ice; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or af ter that date with the approval of the National Exchange O f f ice; and (6) transfers f rom another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly up to 1,000 riels a person a day, and up to a maximum of 50,000 riels monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cambodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, e tc . ). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) sub- scriptions to, or increases in capital of, a Cambodian firm; (3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in Cambod ia; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) t rans fe rs to another capital account related to the country of the account ho lde r; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, e t c . ); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscel- laneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his family, up to 2,000 riels a day. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authoriza- tion. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred f rom abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in Cambodia by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh 92 CAMBODIA market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Cambodian nationals employed by Cambodian firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder or his fam i ly, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in Cambodia, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require au thor iza t ion. Imports and Import Payments An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Com- merce. Twice a year, the National Bank of Cambodia places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the programed imports. All imports are effected by a state-trading agency, the National Import-Export Corporation (SONEXIM). Applications for goods to be imported may be submitted by industries and traders to SONEXIM, which transmits them to a Special Board in the Ministry of Commerce for consideration. The Special Board allocates appropriate foreign exchange to SONEXIM for those applications it approves. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. A foreigner working in Cambodia and receiving a salary exceeding 5,000 riels in Phnom-Penh, or 3,500 riels in the provinces, may transfer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary —after payment of taxes —plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent w i fe stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, parents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional percentage of transferable income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a maximum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each family.) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of 20,000 riels a month. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempted from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Cambodian nationals and working in the private sector are not permitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. 93 CAMBODIA Foreign landlords domiciled in Cambodia may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income from rent, provided that the rent exceeds 5,000 riels for landlords living in Phnom-Penh or 3,500 riels for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign land- lords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in Cambodia, when leaving the country tempo- rarily or permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in Cambodia. The transfer of up to 80 per cent of net profits from nonresident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized, provided that the investment is recognized by the Ministry of Finance as useful to the economic development of Cambodia. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made after May 31,1956 may be transferred. Cambodians studying abroad may receive monthly exchange alloca- tions equivalent to 6,000 riels for France; 4,500 riels for Belgium and Japan; 5,000 riels for Switzerland; 5,500 riels for the United States and the United Kingdom; and 4,000 riels for any other country. A Cambodian student granted a scholarship may receive a monthly allocation to cover the difference between the scholarship and the permissible exchange allocation. A married student may, in addition, receive 2,000 riels a month plus 1,000 riels for each child. Exchange allocations to cover expenses for summer vacations and New Year gifts are 10,000 riels and 2,500 riels, respectively. The export of Cambodian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the National Import-Export Corpora- tion (SONEXIM), in accordance with an annual export program prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. The import of Cambodian currency is prohibited. Foreign bank- notes must be declared by travelers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, they must be surrendered within seven days from the day of entry into Cambodia. 94 CAMBODIA Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No t rans fer abroad of proceeds f rom the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Cambodians and leave Cambodia permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans originally granted in foreign currency may be considered transferab le income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization f rom the Ministry of Finance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cam- bodians. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic development of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of authorized investments made a f ter May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquida- tion of investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested a f ter May 31, 1956 is guaranteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption f rom duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of operation) may be accorded to foreign invest- ment considered as exceptionally use ful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Changes during 1964 January 1. Cambodia's foreign trade was transferred to a state- trading basis. All imports and exports would be made by the National Import-Export Corporation (Societe Nationals d'Exportation et ^Importation or SONEXIM), in accordance with annual import and export programs. January 1. All special exchange facilities, such as the EFAC accounts for exporters and the 10 per cent EMP arrangement for imports of equipment and raw materials, were abolished. Existing 95 CAMBODIA balances on EFAC accounts could be utilized until July 1, 1964 for imports of specified commodities. January 1. A bilateral payments agreement with North Korea entered into force. June 15. The issue of import and export licenses was transferred from the Department of Foreign Trade to the National Import-Export Corporation. July 1. The Cambodian Insurance Corporation (Societe Khmere ^Assurances) was transformed into a public agency, the National Insurance Corporation (Societe Nationale d'Assurances or ASNA), and was accorded the monopoly of all types of insurance and reinsur- ance. July 10. The number of banks permitted to carry out foreign exchange operations was reduced to three, i.e., the National Bank of Cambodia and two commercial banks. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1965: January 1. Foreign tourists staying at hotels of the Societe Khmere des Auberges Royales at Siemreap were no longer given coupons for 25 riels over and above the rate of 35 riels for each U.S. dollar sold. January 1. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel was discontinued. 96 CAMEROON Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange and International Settlements (Exchange Office) of the Ministry of National Economy. An annual import program is established by the Minister of National Economy. Import licenses are issued by the Department of Foreign Economic Relations and approved by the Department of Exchange and International Settlements, which checks the financing and other particulars. The distribution of foreign exchange to importers is carried out by the Technical Committee for Import Distribution (Comite Tech- nique de Repartition des Importateurs—CTRI), composed of nine importers, one representative of industry, and one alternate. It is headed by the Director of Foreign Economic Relations, who is responsible to the Minister of National Economy. The Director of Customs, the Director of Exchange and International Settlements, and the President of the Chamber of Commerce attend CTRI meetings in a consultative capacity. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with countries with which Cameroon maintains bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania —with which France maintains a payments agreement 1The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC). 2 Poland, United Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 97 CAMEROON that applies also to transactions with Cameroon —through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all remaining countries, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly, except for certain goods (liqueurs and wines) which are subject to quota. Imports f rom all other countries are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program, established by the Minister of National Economy, is communicated to the jo int French-Cameroonian Committee; however, this Committee does not determine the country's requirements in non-Franc Area currencies. Import licenses are not issued until the importer has received his allotment of fore ign exchange f rom the Technical Committee for Import Distribution in accordance with his exchange needs as deter- mined by the Committee. For purposes of this distribution, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports, although exchange may also be made available, under certain condi- tions, to newly established importers and industrial enterprises that are not registered importers. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports from all other coun- tries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc. Under quotas established for imports from EEC countries, only goods originating in those countries may be imported. Under the quotas for other countries, goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area and outside the Sino- Soviet bloc may be imported. To encourage the economic development of the northern part of Cameroon, a priority quota of exchange is reserved for the exclusive use of importers doing business in that region. To qua l i fy for this quota, importers must prove that the goods they import will be sold exclusively in the north. Usually, this priority quota averages 30 per cent of total allotments. The authorities also have power (1) to set aside foreign exchange for imports by a government service or public utility enterprise of goods considered essential to the public 98 CAMEROON interest, be fo re the regular distribution is made to private importers; (2) to instruct the Technical Committee for Import Distribution to earmark fore ign exchange in any amount for the importation by private importers of goods considered essential to the economy; and (3) to grant priority to imports to be used by processing industries located in Cameroon. Import licenses wh ich do not involve a request for foreign exchange e.g., g i f ts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign religious missions, may be approved by the Exchange Office in special cases, provided that jus t if ica t ion of the need for the goods in question and evidence of the means of payment are sub- mitted. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in gene ra l , 'sub ject to approval by the Exchange Off ice. The t rans fer of profits from foreign investments is permitted freely. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out F 750 in French banknotes, or the equivalent of F 75,000 in legal tender CFA or CFP f r a nc notes and coins, or the equivalent of F 750 in other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must sign an exchange obligation for all exports. Certain exports require prior au thor iza t ion, wh ich is issued by the Department of Foreign Economic Relations. Certain items classified as "natural resources" require special authorization for export to any destination. These inc lude coffee (green or roas ted), unshelled cocoa beans, ores, mineral products, and common metals and their alloys. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 12 per cent of their U.S. dollar proceeds, and 8 per cent of their proceeds in other non-Franc Area currencies, in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. These percentages may be increased by 3 per cent with the approval of the Exchange Off ice. Balances on these accounts, which 99 CAMEROON are not transferab le, may be used by the exporters to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own business, for representation and advertising expenses, and for business travel abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and surrendered within a month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or fore ign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital The import and export of capital is subject to regulations similar to those applied in France. An Investment Code of June 27, 1960 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which can be accorded to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of benefits to be accorded vary depending on the significance of the project. These benefits are as follows: (1) Exemption until January 1, 1981 from duties and taxes on imported equipment and material and on exported products, and exemption during the first 5 years of the firm's operation from the 5 per cent consumption tax. (2) In addition to the benefits under (1) above, exemption until January 1, 1981 from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and f rom business license fees, while normal amortization during the first 5 years of operation may be offset against taxation during the next 3 years. (3) Firms of particular importance that assist in the execution of the Economic and Social Development Plan and are engaged in priority production may con- clude an "establishment agreement" with the Government for at least 20 years. Such an agreement may prescribe conditions with respect to the operation of the enterprise, minimum equipment and produc- tion plans, and training programs. The Government may give general guarantees concerning the transfer of funds abroad, sales of the firm's products, freedom of movement and employment of its workers, choice of the source of supply of materials and services, and renewal of forestry and mining permits. Facilities may also be provided for the use of hydraulic, electric, and other facilities needed for the production process and for the transportation of products to the place of ship- 100 CAMEROON ment. The agreement may furthermore provide for the granting, in f u ll or in part, of the tax benefits listed under (1) and (2) above. (4) "Establishment agreements" may also include the privilege of tax stabilization dur ing a period not exceeding 30 years (includ- ing 5 years required for installation, unless a longer period is required for this purpose) for firms that make large investments and are con- sidered of prime importance to the national economy. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, wh ich was also applicable to transac- tions w i th Cameroon, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Cameroon, was terminated. April 6. Law No. 64-LF-6 modified the Investment Code of 1960 to permit more flexible adaptation to the requirements of individual pro j- ects, and made the revised Code applicable also to West Cameroon. December 8. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) was signed by Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon ). It would enter into effect on January 1,1966. 101 CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value is Canadian Dollars 1.08108 = US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made f ree ly. The only import licenses required are those for a few agr icu l tural items. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are f ree ly disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to the U.S.S.R. and some other destinations are subject to con- trol, but certain nonstrategic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange receipts f rom, or exchange payments for, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on cap i tal receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 102 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Central A f r ican Republic has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Ministry of National Economy makes allo- cations of exchange to each importer for goods included in the annual import program; it also issues import licenses with the consent of the Exchange Office and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Central A f r ican Republic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Main- land China are made through accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Ruman ia, through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries, in any of the currencies of those coun- tries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from all other countries are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the aThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 103 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French-Central A f r ican Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports f rom all other coun- tries outside the French Franc Area and outside the Sino-Soviet bloc. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except those in the Sino-Soviet bloc, to which special quotas apply. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year a list of the exchange alloca- tions granted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quotas that have been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for 9 months and may be extended twice for 3 months, i.e., the maximum period of validity is 15 months. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used by the exporter h imse l f, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly to residents of coun- tries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. The transfer of profits f rom registered foreign investment is per- mitted freely. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. When traveling to other countries, they may take out banknotes up to a maximum of F 1,000 in metropolitan francs or f rancs issued by the Institute of Issue of the Overseas Departments, or CFAF 75,000 or CFPF 75,000 in legal tender CFA or CFP f ranc notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all other countries require licenses, which are issued freely. 104 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 12 per cent of their proceeds from exports to Canada and the United States, or 8 per cent of their proceeds f rom exports to other countries, in special, nontransferable, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their indus- tries. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Under Law No. 62.355 of February 19, 1963, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central A f r ican Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of speci- fied equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Law also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of the Central Afr ican Repub l ic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon ). Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favor- able provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for preferential tax treatment for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, who is the Chairman of the 105 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authoriza- tion is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. The transfer of proceeds f rom the liquidation of registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with the Central A f r ican Republic, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with the Central A f r i c an Republic, was terminated. September 29. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Mainland China. December 8. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) was signed by Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon). It would enter into effect on Janua ry 1,1966. 106 CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is Ceylon Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 13.33 = £1) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in London. Exchange taxes of 10 and 20 per cent in respect of certain current remittances and capital t rans fe rs are applied for revenue purposes. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. All transactions in foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks au thor ized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is hand led by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations pre- scribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Payments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts f rom the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with 12 countries with which Ceylon has bilateral pay- ments agreements1 must be made through the relevant clearing accounts. Payments to all other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country'. Receipts f rom all other countries may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees f rom a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency 2 other than a Sterling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area currency marketable in the United 1 Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 2 The specified currencies are listed as the currency of any country of the Sterling Area, and Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francsy and U.S. dollars. 107 CEYLON K ingdom, i.e., f ree ly exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations f rom the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corpora- tions, or persons residing abroad. Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such fund s, unless they originate f rom payments for imports, may be used for investment in Ceylon in prescribed securities. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments The va lue and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Except for imports of rice, flour, and sugar by the Food Commissioner's Department and direct imports by other govern- ment departments, all imports require individual licenses3 and are divided into three groups —essential goods, less essential goods, and nonessential goods. Licenses to import goods in the first and second groups are issued up to the limits of quotas based on past imports. Imports of many nonessential goods are either prohibited or con- siderably restricted. The right to import is restricted to registered importers and govern- ment-sponsored corporations. All imports f rom countries in the "Cey- lonized" area 4 and a few imports from any source are restricted to registered Ceylonese traders —a special group of registered import- ers. Imports of specified commodities 5 are restricted to government or state corporations or the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment. In order to allocate quotas, applicants for import licenses are divided 8 Fees are payable on import licenses as follows: Rs 5 on licenses valued up to Rs 500; Rs 10 on licenses that exceed Rs 500 but not Rs 1,000 in value; when the import license exceeds Rs 1,000, an additional fee of Rs 10 is payable for every Rs 1,000 or part thereof. 4 The "Ceylonized" area comprises Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. 6 Rice, wheat, flour (except co rn f lou r ), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, red onions, Maldive fish, unrefined salt, fish (dried or salted), dried fruits, cumin seed, lentils, dal, and cement. 108 CEYLON into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, mach inery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant fu r- nishes, or undertakes to fu rn ish, evidence of importation and of the cost of goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. A foreign exchange tax (subject to several specified exemptions) is payable on certain remittances. The tax is 10 per cent on any sale of foreign exchange to a noncitizen for the maintenance of his dependents abroad (Ceylonese citizens are not eligible for any foreign exchange for this purpose) and 20 per cent on any sale of foreign exchange to a noncitizen for the t rans fer abroad of assets other than funds repre- senting approved pension fund or provident fund balances and reason- able retirement gratuities, which are exempt from exchange tax. (Ceylonese citizens are not provided foreign exchange to transfer capital abroad.) The remittance of profits, dividends, and other investment income was, un t il July 31, 1964, freely permitted, but since then a moratorium, for one year in the first instance, has been applied to such remittances.6 The remittance of l i fe insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies that are purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is permitted. Foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad is not granted. Business travel is limited to travel for the promotion of industrial exports, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 6 a day for a maximum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for cer- tain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educational institutions * Exemption from the moratorium has been granted for interest on foreign loans; advances or credits obtained abroad by the Government or the Central Bank; interest on government and government-guaranteed securities issued locally, if the investment was made through inward remittance of foreign exchange; interest on advances or credits available in the usual f inanc ial operations connected with trade and payments; and interest payable by private parties in respect of credits they had negotiated in the past w i th foreign suppliers of capital goods, etc. Relief is also granted on grounds of hardship. 109 CEYLON in "Indian group'7 countries,7 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 350 a month is a l lowed; for study in educational institutions in other countries, exchange is made available at £ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies and £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, p lus actual fees and costs of books. For travel and other expenses for medical reasons, exchange is au thor ized if a certificate is produced f rom a medical specialist in Ceylon that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as cer- tified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a maximum of Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a w i fe and £ stg. 55 for a ch i ld, provided that, when the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short- term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12), once in 12 months, provided that they are entitled to travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Con- troller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports; in addi- tion, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all other commodities except 36 items, mostly minor agr icu l tural products or hand ic ra f ts. Licenses for exports to Albania, Austria, Bu lga r ia, Ma in land China, the Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, North Korea, the Republic of Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, North Viet-Nam, the Repub l ic of Viet-Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Exports of certain manu fac tu red goods and re-exports of foreign manu fac tu red articles 7 The "Indian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East African region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. 110 CEYLON are allowed only under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the license for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing f a ir value for the goods will be received in Ceylon under prescribed regulations, and, usually, within f o ur months f rom the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the fo rm of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistan notes is not permitted. Ceylon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, in denominations of Cey Rs 10 or less, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or in shares of public companies incorporated in Ceylon. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquida- tion of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon is subject to the transfer moratorium. Invest- ments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or divi- dends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be registered with the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to prescribed limits, the transfer of their net income, other than investment income, is allowed for one year f rom the date of emigration if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizenship, net income, other than investment income, may be transferred, within certain limits, even after one year. I ll CEYLON Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to t rans fer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings up to a maximum of Rs 75,000 for the "Indian group" and Rs 150,000 for other countries. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be t rans fe r red, subject to the above limits. A foreign exchange tax of 20 per cent is applied to repatriation of assets, but retirement funds are exempt f rom this tax. Changes during 1964 January 1. Imports of cement were brought under state trading. January 11. Exchange taxes of 10 per cent and 20 per cent were introduced on certain current and capital remittances. February 5. The granting of exchange for holiday travel was sus- pended, and that for business travel was limited to travel for the pro- motion of industrial exports. February 14. A bilateral payments agreement covering certain transactions with Yugoslavia was concluded. February IS. The bilateral payments agreement with Iran was terminated. March 14. The Indian rupee was deleted f rom the list of specified currencies; all other Sterling Area currencies were designated as specified currencies. March 14. The import of Ceylon currency notes was restricted to Cey Rs 50 (in denominations of Cey Rs 10 or le s s ); evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler was required. The import of Indian and Pakistan notes was prohibited, but the restric- tion on the import of sterling notes was removed. Previously, the import of sterling notes was restricted to £50, and the import of Indian, Pakistan, and Ceylon notes was restricted to a maximum of Rs 75 in the aggregate, of which Pakistan notes could not exceed Rs 20. July 30. Nonnationals employed in Ceylon were permitted to t rans fer at the time of departure their net assets representing their retirement funds and savings, up to maxima of Rs 75,000 for the "Indian group" of countries and Rs 150,000 for other countries. For those who had been in business in Ceylon, the t rans fer of the capital they had originally brought into Ceylon plus a reasonable amount of savings would be allowed. Subsequent remittances representing unre- mitted assets over the above limits were suspended. Previously, net 112 CEYLON assets could be transferred up to Rs 250,000 for all countries, with subsequent transfers permitted up to Rs 25,000 a year. July 30. Allocations for travel abroad for education were reduced, except for graduate and specialized studies of a techn ical and scienti- fic nature. Facilities to nonnationals for travel abroad on fu r lough were suspended. July 31. The foreign exchange tax on the t ran s fer abroad of assets was increased f rom 10 to 20 per cent. July 31. A moratorium was imposed for one year on most remit- tances of profits, dividends, and other investment income. November 25. Imports of certain subsidiary foods tuffs, the only items still under open general license, were made sub ject to individual licensing. 113 CHAD1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA franc, which is equiva- lent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f r anc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Department of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Department, which has delegated to the banks considerable authority in these matters. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and the Exchange Depart- ment allocate exchange for imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Prescription of Currency Chad is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through the authorized banks7 correspondents in France: those with Ruman ia, through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports f rom all other countries are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the 1 In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 114 CHAD amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French-Chadian Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports from all other coun- tries outside the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R., to which special quotas apply. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country except the U.S.S.R. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer based on, principally, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to h im. When the license is issued, the Exchange Department authorizes the importer's bank to make avail- able to him the foreign exchange required for the purchase of the commodity and for incidental expenses. Import licenses are valid for six months and are automatically extended for another six months. Further extensions are not granted except, in unusual circumstances, for manu fac tu red goods when evidence is presented concerning the time needed for their production. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), licenses over and above the quotas of the import program are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of coun- tries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, sub ject to approval by the Exchange Depart- ment, wh ich, however, has delegated authority to authorized banks to approve many transactions. Residents traveling abroad are granted a tourist allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 for each passport for each trip. Foreign exchange may also be obtained for bona fide business trips. The t rans fer of profits f rom registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. There is no limit on the means of payment denominated in CFA francs or metropolitan f rancs that travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out. Resident and nonresident travelers to 115 CHAD other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 or up to F 1,000 in banknotes and coins; however, prior to their departure, non- residents may exchange into foreign currencies means of payment denominated in CFA francs and purchased against payment in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may, with a few exceptions, be made f r e e ly; exports to all other countries require licenses. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within three months from the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain from 6 per cent to 15 per cent of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for any expenses outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins; however, travelers from other countries in the French Franc Area must surrender, within one month, amounts in non-Franc Area currencies exceeding the equivalent of F 1,000. Capital Investments by residents of countries in the French Franc Area may be made without authorization. Investments by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to the authoriza- tion of the Exchange Department; however, authorized banks and notaries have been granted the authority to approve certain types of investments. Residents may take up loans from persons resident outside the French Franc Area up to an amount equivalent to F 1 million, with interest up to 4 per cent per annum and for a period not exceeding 2 years. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. 116 CHAD The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon ). Preferential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treat- ment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for preferential tax treatment for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is. submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by a decision of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. The transfer of proceeds from the liquidation of registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Changes during 1964 February L Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with Chad, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Chad, was terminated. December 8. The treaty establishing the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) was signed by Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon). It would enter into effect on January 1,1966. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1965: January 1. The Exchange Office became part of the Ministry of Finance under the name of Exchange Department. 117 CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the off ic ial market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' market, in both of which only commercial banks are allowed to operate. The rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates. Through the banking market pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large mining companies, receipts f rom a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. In general, capital transactions are entitled to the same exchange market treat- ment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange f rom exporters through commercial banks in a so-called fu tures marke t; commercial banks are also authorized to contract export proceeds in advance of receipt f rom all registered exporters except the large copper companies. On December 31, 1964, the spot exchange rate in the banking market was E° 2.70 buying, E° 2.71 selling, per US$1. On the same date, the effective exchange rates in the banking market for "futures" were E° 3.10 buying, and E° 3.11 selling, per US$1. Transactions not permitted in the banking market may be settled in the brokers' market, but in some cases the approval of the Central Bank must first be obtained. The exchange rate in the brokers' market on December 31, 1964 was E° 3.25 buying, E° 3.26 selling, per US$1. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a transfer application, are subject to a 4 per cent exchange tax. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank of Chile is in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some func- tions of the Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities. Only authorized banks operate in the banking market and in the brokers' market. 118 CHILE Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Department. Large copper and iron ore mining enter- prises must pay their income taxes in U.S. dollars. All other trans- actions, including exports of iron ore by small and medium-sized companies, may be settled in any currency, irrespective of the country of origin or destination of the payment. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as generally permitted, conditionally per- mitted, or prohibited. Goods in the generally and conditionally per- mitted categories must be registered with the Central Bank but may be imported in any volume. All imports are entitled to exchange in the banking market, but this cannot be obtained until 120 days after the date of the bill of lading covering the goods. Imports of goods in the conditionally permitted category are only permitted in "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, and Aysen, and may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first proc- essed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Prohibited imports ( inc lud ing automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Almost all imports are subject to customs surcharges. The follow- ing items are exempt: imports by large companies concerned with mining iron, copper, nitrates, or iodine; crude petroleum and diesel oil destined for the nitrate, subnitrate, and iodine industries; imports by the Univeristy of Chile; imports under loans or credits from the Export-Import Bank of Washington or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; imports under the Surplus Agricultural Commodities Agreement with the United States; spare parts for agricultural machinery; planes and parts for Chilean air- lines; jute sacks, magnetic enamels, etc.; certain capital goods; and goods in the conditionally permitted category imported into the "free port" zones of Arica and Magallanes. The surcharges range from nil to 400 per cent of the c.i.f. value and are paid in escudos at a rate of exchange that is periodically established by the Central Bank. On December 31,1964 this rate was E° 3.06 per US$1. Most imports in the generally permitted category are subject to advance deposit requirements, which must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The importer's deposit obligation generally is equal to the amount of the import surcharges. Thus, the maximum advance deposit generally is 400 per cent of the c.i.f. value. For 119 CHILE protective reasons, however, certain imports continue to be subject to an advance import deposit expressed as a percentage of the c.i.f. value and higher than the import surcharge; the rate for these items is 10,000 per cent. The fo l low ing imports are exempt f rom advance deposit require- ments: imports by the Government, the municipalities, the 'univer- sities, certain specified state enterprises, the large mining companies, and the fishing indus try; imports financed by international organiza- tions or under agreements for U.S. agricultural surpluses; imports on a deferred payments basis; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of foods tu f fs into the principal mining a rea; imports to replace machinery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 ea r thquake; household effec ts and personal effects of travelers; personal effec ts of certain immigrants; imports not of a commercial character and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other member countries of LAFTA and are included either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Privileges extended to Paraguay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items sub ject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports from LAFTA countries of goods on the Chilean National List. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made through the brokers' market in accordance with the regulations applicable to those items in that market. Payment at the rate of exchange in the bank ing market is permitted for a few commercial invisibles; all other transactions take place in the brokers' market. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a trans- fer application, are subject to a tax of 4 per cent, which is applicable not only to purchases of notes and checks but also to payments in respect of bills of exchange and letters of credit. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely, but exports of some items are prohibited or are sub ject to quota. In order to en fo rce these requirements and to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds, all exports, except those of the large copper mines and the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (COVENSA) must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also certifies the f.o.b. value of the exports for the purpose of restitution of duties and taxes to exporters of certain agricultural 120 CHILE and industrial products either imported earlier for processing or produced locally. The proceeds of exports of copper by the large m in ing companies must be received in a prescribed currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). For all exports except those by the large copper and iron mines and COVENSA, exporters must repatriate within 90 days f rom the date of shipment the total value of their exports and must sell the exchange w i th in 10 days f rom its repatriation through an au thor ized bank at the exchange rate in the bank ing market. The Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may allow exporters to repatriate export proceeds at a later date. The large copper companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet the ir local requirements. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an au thor ized bank, wh ich must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. The bank issues a certificate that payment has been made or arranged in an approved manner, to enab le clearance of the export through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange f r om news and commun ica t ions agency fees, f rom specified transactions by national insurance companies, from commissions, f r om reimbursements of insurance claims, and f rom credit granted in fore ign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the bank ing market. Exchange derived from other invisibles, inc lud ing tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Capital Large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange market. Norma l ly, capital is sub ject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on en t ry; this policy applies also to remittances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements, depend ing on the purpose and the type of the invest- ment. (1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the fo rm of foreign exchange may be f ree ly sold in the brokers' market through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) 121 CHILE has registered with the Central Bank. To this end, the Central Bank issues a non transferab le certificate which also permits the free out- ward t rans fer of the capital through the brokers' market. The remittance of profits or interest on this capital requires the au thor iza- tion of the Central Bank. (2) Acco rd ing to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agreement with a Chilean ind iv idual or corporation, or into an agreement with a national enterprise with a view to capital participation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the bank ing market and the brokers' ma rke t; the Central Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interests and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a m in imum investment period of 3 years. As an application and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to fu r ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking market, provided that the amount repatriated is f inanced f rom the increase in the volume of exports resulting f rom the investment. The regime is implemented through individual investment agreements in accordance with Ar t ic le 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years a f ter entry and may amount to 12% per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is permitted annua l ly up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the t rans fer of the f u ll amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the bank ing market to acquire abroad any machinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. (3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee approves by decree the par t icu lar investment; it establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption from payment of certain import surcharges, customs duties, and 122 CHILE taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (norma l ly the banking market) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting f rom the export proceeds of his investment. import Changes during 1964 February 1. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for wh ich the Central Bank approved a t rans fer applica- tion, became subject to a tax of 4 per cent, which was applicable to transactions in banknotes and checks and to payments against bills of exchange and letters of credit. The tax would be payable when the transaction took place. February 4- The Central Bank announced that certain deposits lodged would be re funded within 60 days. April 30. Imports au thor ized under the U.S. AID program could be covered in the "fu tures market," irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. May 27. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply foreign exchange for all imports wh ich be fo re June 30, 1963 had complied with the compulsory payments deferment of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. The Central Bank would sell fo re ign exchange in the "futures market" to cover these payments. June 5. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply foreign exchange for all imports which before July 31, 1963 had complied with the compulsory payments deferment of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. The Central Bank would sell foreign exchange in the "futures market" to cover these payments. June 11. The commercial banks were notified by the Central Bank that a supplier's certificate would be required for all imports taking place under credits granted by fore ign governments or by international institutions. June 25. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply fore ign exchange for all imports wh ich before August 31 1963 had complied with the compulsory de fe rment period of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. The Central Bank would sell foreign exchange in the "futures market" to cover these payments. July 10. The customs surcharge was abolished for spare parts included in the list of generally permitted imports and intended for 123 CHILE automobiles to be modified or assembled in Chile, provided that these parts were imported f rom LAFTA countries and that exports to LAFTA countries of spare parts manu fac tu red in Chile were guaranteed. July 14. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply foreign exchange for all imports wh ich be fo re October 15, 1963 had complied w i th the compulsory deferment period of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit require- ments. The Central Bank would sell fo re ign exchange in the "fu tures market" to cover these payments. July 29. Commercial banks were au thor ized by the Central Bank to supply fore ign exchange for all imports which before November 30, 1963 had complied with the compulsory deferment period of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. The Central Bank would sell fo re ign exchange in the "fu tures market" to cover these payments. July 31. The commercial banks were authorized to purchase and sell in the "fu tures market" all foreign currencies defined as con- vertible by the International Monetary Fund. August 6. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply fore ign exchange for all imports which be fo re December 31, 1963 had complied with the compulsory deferment period of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit require- ments. The Central Bank would sell foreign exchange in the "futures market" to cover these payments. August 7. New promissory notes (pagares} were permitted serve as a guarantee for advance import deposits. August 13. A procedure was established for the use of bonds and pagares that were subscribed by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and transferred to the Cen tral Bank for use by those import- ing f rom Spain. August 14- Authorization was given to insure merchandise in the country of origin at in te rna t iona l ly prevailing rates. September 24. The purchase of foreign exchange in the "futures market" was permitted for all imports of goods subject to a 50 per cent advance deposit requirement, provided that the importer held an import permit valid on the date of the announcemen t. September 30. The Central Bank notified the commercial banks that it would not make foreign exchange available for payment of interest in excess of 7 per cent on import letters of credit or collections. to 124 CHILE September 30. The Central Bank authorized the commercial banks to supply fore ign exchange in the "fu tures market" for all imports which be fo re January 31, 1964 had complied with the compulsory payments deferment of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. October 22. The purchase of fore ign exchange in the "futures market" was permitted for all imports of goods subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement, provided that the importer held an import permit valid on the date of the announcement. October 29. The Central Bank au thor ized the commercial banks to supply foreign exchange in the "fu tures market" for all imports wh ich be fo re February 29, 1964 had complied with the compulsory payments deferment of 120 days, irrespective of the percentage of the advance deposit requirements. November 13. The advance deposit regime for imports was modified. The U.S. do l lar bond deposit in most cases was replaced by the deposit of an amount in escudos equivalent to the customs surcharge plus an add i t ional surcharge that was intended to reflect the cost of renting the dollar-denominated securities which had had to be lodged with the Central Bank under the previous advance deposit regime. The new combined surcharges ranged f rom zero to 400 per cent of the c . i . f. value. For certain commodities not covered by the new regime, the advance import deposit requirement was raised to 10,000 per cent of the c . i .f. value. Previously, almost all imports required advance deposits ranging f rom 5 per cent to 10,000 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue, wh ich had to be discharged by lodging dollar- denominated securities with the Central Bank at the time of registration. November 13. A new list of permitted imports was published, as well as a new list of imports with access to the "futures market." November 13. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 2.93-per US$1. November 18. Commercial banks were no longer permitted to provide direct or indirect financing for advance deposits. December 1. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.06 per US$1. December 23. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply fore ign exchange in the "futures market" for all imports wh ich before March 31, 1964 had complied with the com- pulsory payments deferment of 120 days, irrespective of the per- centage of the advance deposit requirements. 125 CHILE December 28. Commercial banks were authorized by the Central Bank to supply foreign exchange in the "fu tures market" for imports subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit which before April 30, 1964 had complied with the compulsory payments deferment of 120 days, and for imports subject to a higher advance deposit which had complied with that requirement before August 31,1964. 126 REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially fixed are accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Com- mission (FETC) is the executive agency concerned with foreign exchange and trade matters. The func t ions of the FETC are to formu la te policies and plans on foreign exchange and foreign trade; to screen and approve the use of foreign exchange (including the issuance of exchange and trade l icenses); to coordinate the use of U.S. a id; to determine the official buying and selling rates of exchange; to act as a coordinating agency among various authorities in connec- tion with foreign exchange and trade transactions; and to deal with other relevant matters pursuant to orders of the Executive Yuan. Decisions of the FETC are implemented through the appropriate organizations and authorized banks. Exchange and trade licensing is administered by several committees in accordance with the nature of the applications. These committees refer applications for import licenses to the FETC only in exceptional cases. The Central Bank of China is responsible for the over-all manage- ment of foreign exchange and the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Bank of Taiwan issues import and export licenses on instructions from the FETC; however, licenses for imports under U.S. Aid Commercial Procurements are issued by the Central Bank of China. 1 In terms of new Taiwan dollars, the buying and selling rates, respectively, are as follows: deutsche mark 1 = 10.00, 10.03; French franc 1 = 8.10, 8.13; Hong Kong dollar 1 = 7.00, 7.02; Italian lire 10,000 = 640.00, 641.60; Malayan dollar 1 = 13.06, 13.10; and pound sterling 1 = 112.00,112.28. 127 CHINA Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malayan dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance investments in the Republic of China. Settlements with Spain are made in U.S. dollars through a bilateral account. The currency and method for making payments to residents of foreign countries other than Spain are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially d i f- ferent from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Subject to permit, residents may maintain accounts in foreign cur- rencies. These accounts —designated Foreign Currency Deposits— may be used for making authorized payments abroad. They are of two categories: (1) Foreign Currency Deposits maintained by govern- ment organizations, insurance and transportation companies, and private productive enterprises. These cover exchange either earned by account holders or directly allocated by the exchange authorities on the basis of individual permits. (2) Foreign Currency Deposits maintained by individuals. These are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and personal passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Balances on these accounts originate from exchange obtained by account holders prior to their arrival in the Republic of China or from earnings and other receipts from their private resources out- side the Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports require individual licenses. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in such a way as to induce importers to 128 CHINA obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from Mainland China. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) con- trolled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods usually excluded by most coun- tries f rom importation but also a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain luxury Chinese foods, cigarettes, cigars and liquors, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported from time to time by the government monopoly organizations responsible for selling these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some luxury items; certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in an amount satisfying domestic demand and whose factory prices are not more than 15 per cent higher than the c.i.f. prices of comparable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictively; goods of the third type are of ten imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of four main groups of importers: government trading agencies, registered private traders, registered private traders on a commission basis, and end-users and manufacturers. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading 'agency. It handles imports financed with U.S. aid fund s, and imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another govern- ment trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, cooperatives, teachers' organizations, etc. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the FETC; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$200,000. Traders registered as operating on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign suppliers. End-users and manufac turers are permitted to import raw mate- rials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point 129 CHINA of view of the economic needs of the country. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are automatically licensed (e.g., raw cotton, wool, wood for the production of p lywood ). Private importers (i.e., importers other than government agencies and public enterprises) handle about two thirds of the imports paid for with currencies provided f rom official exchange reserves. According to the methods of f inanc ing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of off ic ial exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves, and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. aid program and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors and foreign lenders. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating f rom exchange receipts exempted f rom the surrender requirement. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Payments for invisi- bles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allo- cated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (year-end bonus, profit sharing, overtime pay, and insurance payments are exc luded ), but the maximum amount permitted for fam i ly maintenance is the equivalent of US$250 a month to Japan, US$400 to Europe, and US$500 to the United States; remittances of larger amounts require special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees to foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are approved upon application. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported news- papers and periodicals are remittable up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses and investment in the Republic of China. A maximum of US$2,400 a 130 CHINA year is provided for tuition and living expenses of students studying abroad; for their first academic year, they are granted their total requirements for tuition and expenses, irrespective of the US$2,400 limit. Foreign exchange is made available for business travel. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved as liberally as possible, account being taken of the merits of submitted applications and of exchange reserves; for instance, persons who wish to go abroad for health reasons are allocated exchange if the exchange control authorities feel that such a trip is justified. Applications for exchange to pay for some other invisibles, e.g., pleasure trips, are not approved. For all types of permissible travel, irrespective of destination, exchange equivalent to US$500 a month is granted for incidental expenses. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins, and the equivalent of US$200 in foreign currencies. Travelers f rom abroad are allowed, upon their departure, to repurchase against new Taiwan dollars the foreign currency which they have sold to appointed banks during their stay in the Republic of China. Those travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to non- communist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted af ter they have been processed. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mush- rooms. The export of a few foods tuffs is restricted. Minimum prices are established for exports in order to prevent undfcrinvoicing by exporters. Manu fac tu re rs who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials, namely, import duties, defense surtax on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. Exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing f rom exports immediately a f ter their collection. Subject to approval, 131 CHINA bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to proceeds f rom invisibles are the same as those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and originally approved by the FETC, must be surrendered to the banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by foreigners may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currencies to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, liberally revised in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960, new foreign invest- ments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, two years a f ter completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested f u n d s; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original f o rm; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; and (5) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted the same treatment accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign invest- ments provide for the minimum of preferential treatment which might be granted on more favorable terms in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by foreign nationals must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manu fac tu r ing for domestic needs. Preference 132 CHINA is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Foreign investors who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs. Purchases and sales of stocks by foreign investors must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Division of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, investments may be made outside the Republic of China only in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, and locally manufactured equipment. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any special transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and the like are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Changes during 1964 April IS. Desiccated coconut was transferred from the controlled to the permissible import list. May 8. Coffee and coffee products were transferred from the pro- hibited to the permissible import list. May 15. The amount of foreign exchange granted for daily expenses during all types of permitted travel (i.e., excluding pleasure travel) was raised to the equivalent of US$500 a month for all destinations. Previously, the amounts granted for such expenses were US$400 for North America, US$300 for Europe and Central and South America, and US$250 for Japan and South Asian countries. June 5. The allocation of exchange for study abroad was liberalized. Students could apply for foreign exchange to cover tuition and all other expenses during their first academic year, even if the total should exceed the maximum set previously for the country where the college or university is located. In addition, each student was granted US$300 or its equivalent to cover his incidental expenses during the journey to his destination. July 28. To promote tourism, permission was given to travel agencies, tourist hotels, and taxi companies to import station wagons 133 CHINA and sedans. A travel agency could import one vehicle for every US$30,000 worth of business that it did in 1963, a tourist hotel could import one vehicle for every 50 rooms, and taxi companies could import sedans to replace old vehicles. Importation must take place before July 15,1965. September 4- Synthetic and composite fibers were transferred f rom the controlled to the permissible import list. September 11. It was announced that in fu ture any local industry requesting that its product be put on the controlled import list must show that the domestic ex-factory price did not exceed the c.i.f. price of similar imported goods by more than 15 per cent (previously, 25 per cent). No item would be put on the controlled list unless imports in 1963 had amounted to at least US$30,000. Furthermore, no item would be kept on the controlled list for more than three years; previously, items could remain on the list indefinitely. The existing controlled import list would be reviewed; those commodities receiving protection under the previous 25 per cent price differential criterion would be transferred to the permissible import list, if the new standard could not be met within one year. October 12. Certain types of cement were transferred from the controlled to the permissible import list. October 16. Photographic film and unfinished frames for motor- cycles were transferred from the controlled to the permissible import list. 134 COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a buying rate, which is fixed by the Monetary Board, of Col$7.30 per US$1 for the foreign exchange proceeds of exports of coffee and certain manufac tured products, and for foreign exchange sales by petroleum companies. A fixed rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 is applied to proceeds from official foreign loans to the National Government for local currency expenditures. A rate equal to the average free market rate of the preceding week is applied to all other export proceeds and to exchange sold by the Bank of the Republic for certain freight payments. Holders of exchange certificates may pur- chase foreign exchange f rom the Bank of the Republic to pay for imports, certain freight expenses, government expenses abroad, and certain students' remittances. These certificates are sold by the Bank of the Republic at public auction; at the end of 1964, this "auction" or certificate rate was Col$9.00 per US$1. There is a remittance tax of 10 per cent (which has to be paid with U.S. dollars f rom the free market) on payments of interest on, and repayments of, capital registered before June 17, 1957, if such payments are made through the official market. All other transactions take place in a free market; at the end of 1964 the selling rate in the free market was Col$12.80 buying, and Col$12.82 selling, per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To import f rom, export to, or make payments to foreign countries, prior application for registration of the transaction must be made at the Exchange Registration Office, which is responsible to the Bank of the Republic. Exchange certificates for payments entitled to be made at the "auction" rate must be purchased at the auctions of the Bank of the Republic and may be acquired through the commercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. Applica- tions for such certificates require the prior approval of the Exchange Registration Office. An Exchange Regulation Fund, operated by the Monetary Board, regulates operations in the "auction" market. Over- all import and export policy is determined by the Board of Foreign Trade. The Superintendency of Foreign Trade controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. 135 COLOMBIA Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Denmark, Finland, and Spain for commercial transactions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agreement. Under the agreement with Denmark, goods originating in third countries and purchased in one of the agreement countries may be settled through the agreement account by mutual consent of the partners. The National Federation of Coffee Growers has concluded trade and payments agreements with Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to hold accounts in Colombia. There are no special nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments There are three lists of imports: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by the Superintendency of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely. The f ree list, however, was suspended for a period of 90 days on December 1, 1964; during this suspension, all imports would require a prior license unless the goods were imported f rom LAFTA countries. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Exchange Registration Office is required for all imports; the charge for import registration forms is Col$5.00 for imports valued at less than US$20.00 and Col$100.00 for other imports. Advance import deposits are required for all commodities. Imports by the National Government and by regional or municipal governments are subject to a nominal advance deposit of Col$1.00. An advance deposit of 1 per cent is required for registration of the following: imports of capital goods and spare parts not destined for resale; imports of capital goods intended for the establishment of d ie-forg ing works; imports of raw materials and basic foods tu f fs brought into the country by the National Institute of Health for the preparation of pharmaceutical produc ts; raw materials for tires; imports under clearing agreements concluded for the foreign marketing of coal and products of Acerias Paz del Rio S.A., subject to the exchange and trade regulations; foodstuffs imported by the National Institute of Supply, with the approval of the competent ministry, for Colombia's normal needs; imports exempt from advance deposits under laws, decrees, or resolutions in effect before the coming 136 COLOMBIA into force of Law No. 1 of 1959, provided that they comply with the regulations and are authorized by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; sacramental wine imported by the dioceses in quantities con- sidered reasonable by the Bank of the Republic; and imports of books, newspapers, and magazines of a scientific or literary nature which will contribute to the culture or entertainment of the Colombian people. Other advance deposits required as a prerequisite to import registration are as follows: 5 per cent for machinery and equipment under tariff items assigned to basic industries; 10 per cent for capital goods of considerable value payable in installments, and for tractors and jeeps; 30 per cent for certain essential goods, such as drugs, newsprint, machinery, appliances, spare parts, cereals, fertilizers, tires, iron and steel sheets, buses, taxis, aircraft, and helicopters; 65 per cent for certain metals, some chemicals, paper pulp, certain paper products, aviation fue l, and lubrication oil; and 120 per cent for all other goods. These advance deposits are not required on imports from LAFTA countries of goods included in Colombia's National List or in the special concession lists for Paraguay and Ecuador. The advance deposit must be placed with the Bank of the Republic before the application for registration of the import transaction is submitted to the Exchange Registration Office; it is returned 90 days af ter the merchandise is cleared through customs. Prior exchange registration is required for all payments for imports through the "auction" market; registration is granted in f.o.b. terms upon approval by the Exchange Registration Office of the importer's application for the corresponding exchange certificates. Applications are not approved unless an import registration is submitted as well as evidence that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for exchange certificates, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to at least 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at the average exchange rate of the last auction preceding the date of the deposit. Import payments before the maturity date of the exporter's claim are not authorized, except for official imports. Official imports are exempt from the 95 per cent deposit requirement. Importers, or commercial banks acting for them, may buy exchange certificates covering the value of their imports at auctions held by the Bank of the Republic. Potatoes, wheat, spelt, maslin, and flours made thereof, rice, barley, corn, wheat groats, and some legumes and vegetables may be imported only by the National Institute of Supply. 137 COLOMBIA Payments for Invisibles Payments by the National Government for services are made at the "auction" rate. Installments of principal and interest on all official external medium-term and long-term debts registered before June 17, 1957 and owed by semiofficial or private entities, and repatriation of and service on foreign capital registered before June 17, 1957, may be made with exchange certificates obtained at the "auction" rate but are subject to the 10 per cent remittance tax. Exchange certificates are also granted for remittances to students engaged in postgraduate or special studies abroad, or in technical or vocational studies at the university level not available in Colombia, or hi studies on behalf of official or semiofficial institutions, etc., and for 80 per cent of freights on imports financed with official exchange and carried by national or foreign ships belonging to a shipping conference. Foreign exchange is made available by the Bank of the Republic, at a rate equivalent to the average f ree market rate of the preceding week, for the payment of all freight costs which prior to November 5, 1964 were paid through the free market. Payments for other invisibles must be made through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior application for registration is required for all exports except crude oil. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must give a personal guarantee that the proceeds will be surrendered in an appropriate currency (see Prescription of Currency, above) and within any time limit that may be applicable for the commodity concerned. For coffee, the proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days a f ter registration, except for exports made by the National Coffee Federation, which may keep stocks abroad for sale and make deposits in banks abroad in the interim before sale. Exporters of bananas must surrender 60 per cent of their proceeds within 10 days of the issuance of the export license and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days. Receipts from minor exports have to be surrendered within 180 days after export, but exporters may receive a 90-day extension of this period. Exchange proceeds from all exports, except crude oil, must be surrendered. The exchange proceeds from exports of coffee must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at the buying rate of Col$7.30 per US$1 fixed by the Monetary Board. The proceeds of all other exports are negotiated at the average buying rate in the free market 138 COLOMBIA for the preceding week. Manu fac tu red export products in which imported materials or elements are used are, however, subject to the following system: when the value of the imported raw material com- ponent is less than 50 per cent of the export value, the buying rate for the foreign exchange proceeds of the export is the average f ree market rate of the preceding week; when it exceeds 50 per cent, the foreign exchange proceeds of the export must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the buying rate fixed by the Monetary Board, i.e., Col$7.30 per US$1. Exports of coffee are subject to a minimum surrender price presently fixed at US$73.00 per 70-kilogram bag; the surrender price for bananas and other products varies according to the quantity exported and the price that the exporter may obtain in accordance with world market conditions. When the surrender price is higher than the f.o.b. export p r ice, exporters have to purchase fo re ign exchange to fu l f i ll the surrender requirement. This exchange may be purchased in the free market or f rom the Bank of the Republic at the free market rate for the day. Further, co f fee exporters are required, prior to registration, to surrender in kind to the Na t ional Coffee Fund the equivalent of approximately 5 per cent of the volume of coffee exported. Whenever the National Federation of Coffee Growers declares the volume of Colombian coffee production to be below average, the exporter may make an equivalent cash payment to the National Coffee Fund in lieu of delivery in kind. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained or negotiated in the free market. Capital Capital imported for the activities of the petroleum industry, including activities in the field of petrochemicals, must be registered with the Exchange Registration Off ice. When such capital is imported for exploration and exploitation of petroleum or to pay for related services, the foreign exchange must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the rate of Col$7.30 per US$1. Foreign capital invested in the petroleum industry and net profits on such capital are remitted according to special laws and contracts. For other industries, there is at present a dual system: Those registered be fo re June 17, 1957 may pay amortization and profits on foreign capital with "auction" exchange, covering the remittance tax of 10 per cent with U.S. dollars purchased in the free market, or they 139 COLOMBIA may purchase the exchange in the free market, in wh ich case the remittance tax is not payable. Capital imported on or after June 17, 1957 does not have to be registered with the Exchange Registration Office and may enter freely through the free market; amortization and profits on such capital must also be negotiated through the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1964) (pesos per UJS. dollar) Buying 7.30x (Fixed Rate) Exports of coffee and manufac tured products with an import component exceeding 50 per cent. Exchange sales by petroleum companies for explora- tion and exploitation. 9.00 (Fixed Rate) Off ic ial foreign loans to National Gov- ernment for local currency expenditures. 12.80 (Average Free Market Rate of Preceding Week) All other exports except crude oil.8 Other foreign exchange sales to Bank of the Republic. 12.80 (Free Market Rate) Invisibles. Other private capital. Changes during 1964 Selling 9.00! ("Auction" Rate) All imports. Payments by the National Government, certain students' expenses, and fre ight payments on merchandise transported by conference ships. 10.28* ("Auction" Rate plus 10% Remittance Tax)2 Principal and interest on official exter- nal debt registered before June 17, 1957. Repatriation of and service on foreign capital registered before that date. 12.82 (Average Free Market Rate of Preceding Week) All freight costs which prior to Novem- ber 5, 1964 were paid through the free marke t. 12.82 (Free Market Rate) Other invisibles and cap i ta l. During the year various changes in impor t- deposit requirements were announced. January 10. The main buying rate of Col$7.10 per US$1 was changed to Col$7.30 per US$1. January 10. The minimum surrender price for exports of coffee was raised from US$59.00 to US$66.30 per 70-kilogram bag. 1 The banks may charge a commission of not more than Col$0.05 per US$1. 2 The remittance tax is payable in U.S. dollars purchased in the free market. 9 Proceeds from exports of crude oil need not be surrendered. 140 COLOMBIA January 22. Exporters of bananas were required to surrender 60 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds within 10 days after the issuance of export licenses, and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days a f ter their issuance. January 24. Capital imports of petroleum companies, and transfers of amortization, profits, and interest on such capital, required registra- tion with the Exchange Registration Office. March 7. The minimum surrender price for exports of coffee was raised f rom US$66.30 to US$74.00 per 70-kilogram bag. April 29. Minor exports no longer required a bank guarantee in regard to the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds; instead, the exporter's personal guarantee sufficed. July 13. A. f ree trade zone was created at Barranquilla. July 17. Decree Law No. 1733 abolished the Superintendency of Imports and established two new organizations to control foreign t rade: the Board of Foreign Trade and the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. July 17. Decree Law No. 1734 vested in the Monetary Board the legal authority to change the certificate system and the auction rate; it also provided for the registration of certain imports of capital, permitted the sale in the f ree market of capital imported for the metal-extracting industries, and discontinued the Col$7.30 rate for gold exports. September 2. A 5 per cent advance deposit requirement was in troduced; it was applied to machinery and equipment under tar iff items assigned to basic industries. October 21. The amount up to which banks and financial institutions c'ould give guarantees in foreign currency was limited to 50 per cent of the sum of paid-up capital and reserves. October 25. The Bank of the Republic ceased its support operations in the free exchange market. November 5. Exchange was made available by the Bank of the Repub l ic at a rate equivalent to the average free market rate of the preceding week for the payment of all fre ight costs wh ich prior to November 5,1964 were settled through the free market. November 13. The minimum surrender price for exports of coffee was reduced f rom US$74.00 to US$73.00 per 70-kilogram bag. November 18. Commercial banks were permitted to repurchase f rom the Bank of the Republic 40 per cent of the proceeds of minor exports that they had surrendered. 141 COLOMBIA December 1. A resolution of the Board of Foreign Trade suspended the import free list for a period of 90 days; during the suspension, all commodities would require a prior license unless they were imported f rom LAFTA countries. December 21. A new customs ta r i ff under the Brussels nomenc la tu re was introduced. December 23. The advance deposit requirements applicable to the ta r i ff items of the new customs tar iff were announced. December 28. Prior exchange registration, wh ich was required for all payments for imports, ceased to be automatically accepted upon submission of the import registration and evidence that the goods had entered Colombia. Exchange applications henceforth would require the approval of the Exchange Registration Office prior to purchase of exchange at the "auction" rate. To obtain such approval, a 95 per cent advance deposit in pesos calculated at the "auction" rate was required at least 20 days prior to the application for foreign exchange, and evidence had to be submitted that the fore ign obligation had fa l len due. Advance import deposits used to buy exchange certificates could no longer be returned a f t er 45 days; hence fo r th, these also wou ld be returned 90 days after customs clearance. December 30. Import registrations had to indicate the approximate date on wh ich payment would f a ll due. 142 CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Congo (Brazzaville) has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f r anc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Ministry of Economic Affa irs allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import program; it also issues import licenses with the consent of the Exchange Office and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Congo (Brazzav i l le) is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania, through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly. Imports f rom all other countries are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French-Congolese Committee. 1The CFA franc circulating in Congo (Brazzaville) is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 143 CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports f rom all other coun- tries outside the French Franc Area except those of the Sino-Soviet bloc. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country except those in the Sino-Soviet bloc, to which special quotas apply. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of Economic Affa irs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for one year, and no extensions are granted except for specially manufactured goods when evidence is presented concerning the delay in manu fac tu re. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of coun- tries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. However, for the fo l low ing categories, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange without prior authorization from the Exchange O f f ice: (1) for travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip; (2) for study and living expenses connected there- w i th, upon presentation of supporting documents f rom the educa- tional institution attended by the student; (3) for fam i ly mainte- nance, upon presentation of supporting documents; and (4) for vacation expenses abroad, up to the equivalent of CFAF 12,500 a person a month, with a maximum equivalent to CFAF 50,000. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes the sale of foreign exchange freely for the fo l low ing: payments for patent rights, royalties, trade- marks, licenses, etc.; the net amount of salaries received by foreigners employed in Congo (B razzav i l le ); expenditures and earnings of foreign governments; and medical expenses and living expenses abroad for reasons of health. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 or CFPF 75,000 in CFA or CFP 144 CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) banknotes, and up to an equivalent amount in banknotes of countries outside the French Franc Area. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 10 per cent of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Under the Investment Code of June 1961, any enterprise estab- lished in Congo (Brazzaville), whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enter- prises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo (B razzav i l le ); it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Braz- zav i l le), and Gabon ). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enter- prises of prime importance to the country's economic development; 145 CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) it provides for preferential tax treatment for a period of up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above). Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and Planning, who, af ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is sub- mitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legislation. Controls over foreign investments in Congo (Brazzaville) are administered along the lines established by exchange control regula- tions in France. The transfer of profits f rom, as well as the proceeds from the liquidation of, registered foreign investment is permitted freely. How- ever, Portuguese nationals and companies controlled by Portuguese nationals require the authorization of the President of Congo (Braz- zaville) to make financial transfers abroad; Portuguese nationals are upon request given permission to make such transfers to Portugal. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with Congo (B razzav i l le ), was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Congo (Brazzaville), was terminated. July 13. A National Trading Office (Office National du Com- merce or OFNACOM) was established to serve as sole importer of all products destined for the northern regions of the country. The Office would also create and operate wholesale and retail out- lets in these regions. December 8. The treaty establishing the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) was signed by Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon). It would enter into effect on January 1,1966. 146 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Democratic Republic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of cur- rency is the Congo f ranc. The off ic ial buying rate is CF 150 = US$1 and applies to all exchange proceeds; the official selling rate is CF 180 = US$1 and applies to all exchange payments. The buying and selling rates for other currencies are fixed on the basis of official cross rates between each of those currencies and the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered principally by the National Bank of Congo, wh ich is responsible for global allocations of foreign ex- change for payments for imports and invisibles. The General Manager of the National Bank acts also as Foreign Exchange Controller and in this capacity is directly responsible to the Prime Minister for the broad fo rmu la t ion and control of exchange programs. The Bureau of Economic Coordination in the Prime Minister's office, together with the Office of Supply (Office d'Approvisionnement) in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, is responsible for the determination of more detailed priorities for imports and the allocation of import quotas to recognized importers. On the basis of decisions reached by the above-mentioned agencies, combined import licenses and authoriza- tions for payments for imports are issued by the Licensing Office, and au thor iza t ions for payments for invisibles are issued by the Exchange Office. Both these offices are an integral part of the National Bank. An Exchange Commission, composed of representatives of the economic ministries and of the National Bank, deals with contraven- tions of exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency regulations. The Democratic Republic of Congo is not a party to any bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs. These accounts may be freely debited for and credited with settlements in the Democratic Republic. 147 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 2. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Nonresident nationals require special authorization f rom the National Bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them f ree ly. All Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited f r e e ly; they may be debited free ly for transfers to other Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and to accounts abroad. 3. Blocked Accounts. These accounts in Congo francs may be freely credited with funds owned by nonresidents; they may be debited without special authorization for certain specified purposes. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are prohibited except between accounts held by the same individual. Imports and Import Payments The National Bank determines the total amount of foreign exchange to be made available for payments for imports in accordance with an exchange budget established for each four-month period; the budget distinguishes between imports financed by the Democratic Republic's own resources and imports financed by foreign aid. Within these limits, the Office of Supply assigns quotas by commodity categories for imports financed out of the Democratic Republic's own resources, in accordance with priorities established by this Office and by the Bureau of Economic Coordination. The Office then allo- cates individual quotas to recognized importers, subject to the approval of the Bureau of Economic Coordination. Importers who have obtained an import quota must apply to the Licensing Office, through an authorized bank, for a combined import license and exchange authorization. Importers do not require individual import quotas for a few specified products, such as petroleum products, salt, yeast, fish, and many types of meat, most of which are liberalized. The commodity categories to be financed by foreign aid are determined in agreement with the donor countries. In addition, for enterprises deemed essential to the economy, a system of "exchange allocation agreements" is in force, which gives limited but guaranteed access to the Democratic Republic's currency resources. Under this system, certain proportions of export pro- ceeds (specified for individual exporting companies on the basis of agreements reached between each company and the National Bank ), surrendered at the rate of CF 150 per US$1, are credited at the rate of CF 180 per US$1 to so-called Resident Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be debited exclusively for payments for author- ized categories of imports and invisibles to be effected directly by the account holder in connection with his own business activity. 148 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO The imports concerned are not subject to import quota require- ments, and the banks in which the Resident Foreign Currency Accounts are held obtain an import license on behalf of the account holder and make payments against the presentation of import docu- ments. The proper use of exchange credited to Resident Foreign Currency Accounts is verified by the National Bank. Allocations of exchange ( for direct imports or for invisibles) may be granted under similar conditions to nonexporting producers and to service enterprises. Imports under this arrangement are not subject to quota requirements, but a combined import license and exchange authorization is required in accordance with the provisions of the respective exchange allocation agreements. An application for an import license must be accompanied by a specification of the merchandise to be imported, its unit price and country of origin, the transport and insurance charges connected with it, and the currency in which the payment is to be made. The com- bined import licenses and exchange authorizations that are granted are normally valid for four months. Within that period, importers must complete the importation and make the payment authorized. Banks are permitted to open letters of credit for importers to whom import licenses have been granted. The importers must forth- with provide to the banks the countervalue in Congo francs, calcu- lated at the rate of exchange for imports; however, by that action they are not relieved of any exchange risk involved. Payment to the foreign exporter may not be made until the bank has received the invoice and the documents evidencing either the shipment to the Democratic Republic of the merchandise described in the import license, or its clearance through Congolese customs. For most con- sumer goods, a certificate of verification of the quantity, the quality, and the country of origin of the merchandise, issued by a foreign correspondent of the Societe Congolaise de Surveillance, must be part of these documents. A similar licensing procedure applies to imports with "foreign financing/' which are allowed under certain conditions. These imports consist mainly of materials and equipment related to new invest- ments, and of the requirements for institutions such as schools and charitable organizations. An import license is required, but there is no corresponding payment authorization and no foreign exchange is made available. The quota and licensing procedure, as well as the verification for- malities, apply as a rule to all private imports, including those financed by foreign aid. However, for the latter, any provisions connected with the granting of the foreign aid must also be observed. 149 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the National Bank. Normally, exchange is granted for items connected with trade. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals resident in the Democratic Republic of Congo are authorized, within certain limits. Travel abroad by foreigners must be entirely paid for with foreign exchange supplied by the traveler h imse lf, while fares for authorized travel by Congolese nationals may be paid in Congo francs; airline booking offices and travel agencies may, upon applica- tion, obtain foreign exchange cover to the extent that their receipts in Congo francs exceed one third of their total receipts f rom fares for fore ign travel. There are basic allocations for official and business travel and students' expenses abroad. T rans fe rs for certain adm in- istrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. No exchange is made available for transfers of investment income. All payments for invisibles are subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. Provisions covering the invisibles listed above may be included in "exchange allocation agreements." In these cases, the exchange is made available in accordance with procedures similar to those described in the section on Imports and Import Payments, above. All travelers may take out Congolese banknotes up to CF 15,000 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Banks are normally author- ized to extend such licenses to exporters who submit a declaration of collection of exchange. Such declarations must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. However, under the system of "exchange allocation agreements" (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ), certain pro- portions of the export proceeds surrendered may be repurchased by the exporters concerned in accordance with the procedures described above. Exporters of agricultural products may use up to 25 per cent of repatriated export proceeds to settle payments for authorized imports and invisibles. "Exchange allocation agreements" with mining companies provide for allocations ranging from 33 per cent to 38 per cent of their export proceeds surrendered. 150 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. The import of Congolese banknotes is prohibited, except that travelers to the Democratic Republic may import such banknotes up to an amount not exceeding CF 15,000 a trip; additional local currency may be obtained by the sale of foreign currency at the off ic ial buying rate. No one on Congolese territory (whether national or foreigner) is allowed to hold foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment in amounts in excess of US$300 or its equivalent. Foreigners travel- ing to the Democratic Republic and carrying amounts in excess of this limit must deposit the excess amounts in an authorized bank within 48 hours of arrival on Congolese territory; they are allowed to recover them on departure. Nationals who leave the Democratic Republic and wish to export fore ign banknotes and foreign means of payment in excess of US$300 or its equivalent must submit to the customs authorities an official certificate showing that the banknotes and other means of payment concerned have been acquired legally. Capital Capital transfers abroad, except some relating to the Government, are not authorized. Changes during 1964 February 17. Importers no longer required an individual import quota for imports financed under the U.S. aid program; banks were authorized to validate import licenses relating to these imports. May 4- Licenses for the import of salt and yeast were granted freely. June 22. The Monetary Council of the Democratic Republic of Congo, the interim Institute of Issue of the Democratic Republic, was dissolved, and the National Bank of Congo commenced opera- tions. The National Bank took over all the functions previously carried out by the Monetary Council. The Licensing Office was integrated into the National Bank. July 29. Travelers could bring in or take out CF 15,000 in domestic banknotes. August 1. The requirement of a certificate of verification of quality, quantity, and country of origin was abolished for the import of petroleum, pharmaceutical products, investment goods, and certain industrial raw materials. 151 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO August 1. Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Congo Francs were abolished. Balances in such accounts could be freely transferred to Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Blocked Accounts with a balance not exceeding CF 50,000 were converted into Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs. The opening of Blocked Accounts was discontinued; nonresidents, who previously were only permitted to open Blocked Accounts, could open Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs. September 1. Licenses for the import of fish (dried, salted, or smoked) and many kinds of meat were granted freely. October 1. Licenses for the import of most petroleum products were granted freely. 152 COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of 0 6.62 per US$1. Exchange may be purchased freely by the public in a market in which the Central Bank maintains the rate at 0 6.65 per US$1. Costa Rica has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Export proceeds have to be surrendered. Other exchange receipts may be disposed of freely. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1,1965. Administration of Control The controls over export receipts are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Costa Rica does not maintain any payments or clearing agreements with other countries. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be made in Costa Rican colones through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearing house. Imports and Import Payments There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. As part of the exchange reform of 1961, certain less essential or luxury items were made subject to either a 15 per cent or a 30 per cent temporary import surcharge. However, as each successive Central American common external tariff agreement enters into force, any surcharges on the agreed items are thereby eliminated. For Costa Rica, such tariff equalization provisions now apply to about 96 per cent of the items listed in the Central American uniform import tariff schedule. 153 COSTA RICA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not controlled, and exchange may be purchased freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as fo l lows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses f rom the Ministry of Economy and Finance; (2) sugar requires an export license from the Ministry of Economy and Finance in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled; (3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses f rom the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses from the Civil Aviation Board; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses f rom the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license f rom the Tobacco Defense Board; and (8) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and an approval from a commercial bank stating that there are no liens on the coffee. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered. Foreign- owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calculated by deducting f rom their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year f rom their transactions in Costa R ica; (2) a sum equivalent to the depreciation on their investments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on sugar and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained or sold freely. 154 COSTA RICA Capital Transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and non- residents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign investments may be registered with the Central Bank and repatriation of the capital and income thereon assured. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 155 CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is Cyprus Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 was US$2.79% buying, US$2.78% selling, per fC 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus (Exchange Control Depar tmen t); trade controls, by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the commercial banks. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise con- trols on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Potato Control Board. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries covered by bilateral payments arrange- ments must be made through the appropriate account.1 Payments to other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to other countries may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account, in any specified currency,2 or in any other currency free ly exchangeable for sterling. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may maintain with 1 Cyprus has bilateral payments arrangements involving settlements through clearing accounts w i th Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 156 CYPRUS authorized banks nonresident accounts, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency by nonresidents. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain payments of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. These accounts may be in the form of deposits with local banks earning interest which may be freely transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments Most imports may be made freely under an open general license. Individual import licenses are, however, required for 51 items (certain agricultural and textile products, a few metals, and most nonelectrical machinery) and for all goods originating in countries with which Cyprus maintains bilateral payments arrangements (see footnote 1). Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide gifts not exceeding £C 10 in value and not to be sold, for returned goods, or for certain special transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from foreign investments may be transferred abroad, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 400 a year, and the upper limit is £C 1,400 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C 450; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,400; in other countries, £C 850. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 250 a person annua l ly; for business travel, £C 5 to £C 25 a day is granted in addition- to the tourist allowance. Travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out any other foreign cur- rency notes which they brought into Cyprus. 157 CYPRUS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to licensing by the Potato Control Board. All other exports to Sterling Area countries are free. All exports to countries outside the Sterling Area require export licenses, which are issued freely, provided that the transaction is being cleared through an authorized bank through which the net export proceeds will be repatriated and those in non-sterling currency surrendered. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering such applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise f rom the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participation in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated a f ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may have £C 5,000 of their assets transferred abroad. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission f rom the authorities. Changes during 1964 November 5. Exports of potatoes became subject to control by a newly established Potato Control Board, which was given authority 158 CYPRUS to introduce export quotas for potatoes and to allocate these among importers. The Board was also empowered to act as an importer itself. November 7. Cyprus concluded a bilateral payments agreement with Eastern Germany, replacing the previous clearing arrangement with that country. 159 DAHOMEY Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on all payments to countries outside the French Franc Area, the minimum charge being CFAF 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses, certificates of importation, and export licenses are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs and approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Eastern Germany are made through a special account under the terms of the bilateral payments agreement concluded with that country.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania —with which France maintains a payments agreement that applies also to transactions with Dahomey —through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; with all remaining countries, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de POuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Ghana. 160 DAHOMEY Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports from all sources are prohibited.8 Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a joint French-Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commodities4 are subject to individual ceilings; for each of these commodities, this amount is made up of a global quota for the EEC countries except France and a global quota for all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. The quotas" determine the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. Certain textiles are licensed freely outside the import program. For other goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license or certificate of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrangement (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters are approved freely, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are authorized freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, 8 In addition to such items as arms, explosives, and drugs, the prohibition covers phosphorous matches, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, diamonds, gold, wheat flour, and saccharine. Imports of canned fish in tins of over one kilogram are prohibited unless of French origin. 4 These commodities are beverages other than whisky and gin, piece goods (printed and unprinted), vehicles and spare parts, and refrigerators. 161 DAHOMEY dividends, and royalties are also approved freely. Foreigners may t rans fer all their savings f rom salaries, provided that the t rans fer is made within three months of receipt of the salary. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Exchange for premiums in respect of bona fide insurance transactions is granted freely. Travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allowance in an amount equivalent to CFAF 120,000 per annum; the allowance is released in four equal installments, each of which may be taken up only if evidence is submitted to show that the preceding installment has been fu l ly utilized for genuine tourist expenditures. Exchange for business travel is granted up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for each trip. Exchange for fam i ly support is granted up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each dependent. Exchange for study abroad is granted freely upon submission of documentary evidence of expenses. Representa- tion, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Travelers to Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries out- side the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in metropolitan f ranc s, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses but are not subject to quantitative restriction. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain the fo l low ing percentages of export proceeds in special, nontransferable, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts: 12 per cent for proceeds f rom Canada and the United States, irrespective of the currency used for paymen t; 162 DAHOMEY 8 per cent for proceeds f rom other countries, irrespective of the currency used for payments; and 6 per cent for proceeds of exports on consignment. Except for proceeds of exports on consignment, these percentages may be increased by 3 per cent by enterprises engaged principally in export business. Balances on these accounts may be used to make any payment outside the French Franc Area, provided that general or special authorization has been obtained within the regulations for their use. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of countries outside the French Franc Area in respect of services, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers from Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Dahomey and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Dahomey and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferen- tial status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years, and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption during the first 5 years of operation f rom the tax on industrial and commercial earnings as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very- large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, Plan C guarantees 163 DAHOMEY marketing stabilization for products, f r ee choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Transfers abroad of proceeds f rom investments are authorized freely. liquidation of the foreign Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with Dahomey, was terminated. March 1. The import program for the 12-month period that began on March 1, 1964 entered into effect. Most imports f rom EEC countries other than France were liberalized. The import program consisted of global quotas applicable to all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries and of ceilings on five groups of commodities. The previous import program contained global quotas for imports from EEC countries other than France, global quotas for imports f rom most other countries outside the French Franc Area, and bilateral quotas under trade agreements. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Dahomey, was terminated. September 22. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Eastern Germany. 164 DENMARK1 Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The off ic ial limits for the U.S. do l lar are DKr 6.8575 buying, and DKr 6.9575 selling, per US$1, at wh i ch rates the exchange authorities stand ready to inter- vene; the rate for the U.S. do l lar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for the Canad ian dollar and speci- fied European c u r r e n c i e s2 are quoted daily. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage with one another and with their for- eign correspondents in convertible and externally convertible curren- cies, inc lud ing Danish kroner, both spot and forward for up to 12 months. Forward prem iums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of market fo rces. Forward transac t ions w i th residents must have a com- merc ial basis. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, wh ich is the central exchange control authority. However, administra- tive powers for most payments and t ran s fe rs are delegated to the au tho r i z ed exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when requ ired, for fore ign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f r om the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when requ i red, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Ag r i cu l tu r e, or the M in is try of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency For exchange con trol purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the b i la te ral a c count coun t r ies :>> and the convertible area (all other coun t r ie s ). 1 In view of the change th at took p lace on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this .survey), th is survey presents the position as at that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Czechoslovak korunas, deu tsche m a r k. Finnish m a rkk a s, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian l ire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Braz i l, Czechos lovak ia, P^astern Germany, Ruman ia, and, for merchandise payments only, Co lomb ia. 165 DENMARK Payments to countries in the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting Danish kroner to any Convertible or Bilateral Krone Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Payments f rom countries in the convertible area may be received in any currency of the area or in Danish kroner, except from a Bilateral Krone Account. Payments to the bilateral account countries must be made in accord- ance with the payments agreement between Denmark and the country concerned, usually in Danish kroner through a Bilateral Krone Accoun t; noncommercial payments to Brazil may be made in con- vertible currencies. Payments f rom bilateral account countries may be received in accordance with the relevant payments agreement or in convertible currency, including Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Most accounts held in Danish kroner for nonresidents are converti- ble. Bilateral Krone Accoun ts are ma in ta ined for a few countries (see footnote 3). Both Convertible Krone Accounts and Bilateral Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insur- ance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each qua r te r; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Convertible Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, with the proceeds f rom sales of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts or to Bilateral Krone Accounts, for purchases of any foreign currency, and for author- ized payments to residents of Denmark f rom any foreign country. Bilateral Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom any Convertible Krone Account, with transfers f rom another Bilateral Krone Account of the same country and with the proceeds f rom sales of the currency of that country or of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to any foreign country. They may be debited for transfers to other Bilateral Krone Accounts of the same country and for purchases of the currency of that country, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark f rom the coun- try of the account holder. Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries. 166 DENMARK Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income f rom capital, pensions, and other f u n ds owned by or accru ing to Danish emigrants within the first three years af ter emigration and wh ich are not transferable abroad because they amount to more than the yearly allocation granted for the trans- fer of such funds. Balances on Capital Accounts may be used for the same private payments in Denma rk as those generally allowed f rom Convertible and Bilateral Krone Accounts, but may be used only within certain limits f or commercial payments in excess of DKr 2,000. Within the limits set for transfers of emigrants' fund s, i.e., up to DKr 40,000 a person in each of the three years a f ter emigration, balances may be t rans fe r red abroad, used for commercial payments in Denmark, or transferred to other Capital or to Foreign Accounts. Af ter three years, emigrants may t ran s fer remaining balances on Capital Accounts without limitation, and the account is then reclassified either as a Convertible Krone Account or as a Bilateral Krone Account. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept ma in ly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules governing such accounts fo l low broadly the same principles as those established for Convertible Krone Accounts, except that t rans fe rs abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on a restricted list may be imported without license f rom the 'Tree List Area ," wh ich comprises most countries outside the Soviet bloc.4 For imports f rom the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (reg iona l) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List A r e a . "5 Imports f rom countries outside the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are granted in accordance with bilateral trade agree- ments and traditional trade relations, and apply to the specific country concerned. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely w i th in two years f rom the end of the month in which the 4 The fo l low ing countries are not included in the "Free List Area": Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Republic of China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Nor th Viet-Nam. 5 Only wine, some fish, and cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. 167 DENMARK goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and ma jor plants. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within a year from the date of payment. Payments for invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments for most invisibles to be made free ly; only in a few cases is approval f rom the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained in convertible or externally convertible currencies for travel to any country, including the bilateral account countries. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased f rom agen- cies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of pay- ment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived f rom sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ma jor agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisher- ies. Exports of a few industrial products to the "Free List Area" and of all products to other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regulations being to safe- guard the fulfillment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, to serve strategic purposes, and to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of convertible or externally convertible currencies. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obli- gation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. 168 DENMARK Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those which apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount in Danish banknotes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repurchase the trans- feror's own bonds, to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, etc., or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent di- rect investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, pro- vided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 a year for each person during the first three years af ter emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad after three years. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made with- out any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise con- cerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission, which is granted liber- ally. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A non- resident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or sub- scribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquida- tion of investments in Denmark. They may purchase or subscribe to 169 DENMARK shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained f rom the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, fu r the r, grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to commercial and industrial enterprises connected with the lender as subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to members of their families. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who were nonresi- dents at the time of receipt may be paid freely.. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval f rom the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities require permission f rom the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securi- ties owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securi- ties held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold to residents only with the National Bank's permission. Changes during 1964 January 1. Imports of certain vegetables and a number of other items from the "Free List Area" were liberalized. March 18. Denmark ceased invoking Article XII of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade. April 14. Noncommercial payments to Brazil could be made in con- vertible currencies. April 14. Authorized exchange dealers could subscribe to securities newly issued abroad by nonresidents, provided that these securities had either been sold to nonresidents beforehand or would be resold to nonresidents w i th in one year. 170 DENMARK June 4- Foreign borrowing by local authorities and concessionary companies was prohibited until fu r ther notice; the measure did not affect loans already being negotiated. July 1. The liberalization of imports f rom countries within the "Free List Area" was extended to include certain foods tu f fs and a number of manufac tured goods, including certain utility vehicles, locomotives, and some other railroad equipment. July 1. The global import quotas for the period July 1, 1964-June 30, 1965 were announced. December 11. It was announced that some fu r ther import liberaliza- tion would take place on January 1, 1965, that an over-all plan for the elimination of the remaining import restrictions on industrial goods was being prepared, and that the last restrictions on industrial imports would be abolished by the end of 1966. December 29. Certain exchange control regulations concerning insurance, reinsurance, and some types of capital transactions were revised; the revisions involved some relaxation of restrictions on out- ward payments. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1965: January 1. Yugoslavia was t rans fe r red to the "Free List Area." DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1.00 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value. All payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The com- mercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency No obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Licenses for imports are not required. With the exception of goods imported f rom the United States under the program of the Agency for International Development (A ID ), all payments for imports are subject to scrutiny by the Central Bank. No import prohibitions are in force. Payments for many imports are settled on a d ra ft for collection basis; when the d ra ft is presented for collection, the importer pays the fu ll amount in pesos to the commercial bank; the bank then transfers this deposit to the Central Bank which releases exchange for the remittance. Other imports are paid for by letter of credit or a direct transfer of exchange: the commercial banks transmit daily to the Central Bank a list of importers' applications for exchange accompanied by the equivalent in local currency. The Central Bank authorizes the commercial banks to open letters of credit and, when these have been negotiated, it transfers foreign exchange to the banks. Exchange to meet direct transfers is provided promptly. 172 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except tourism, require the approval of the Central Bank, which in most cases is given freely. There is a limit of US$50 for each application in respect of personal and fam i ly remittances. For tourism, the banks may make exchange equivalent to US$100 available to an individual resident once every six months. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement. Within 48 hours of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f .o.b. value of their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Applications for licenses for outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Outward remittances of capital are seldom approved. Changes during 1964 May 11. Law 251 made the surrender of all exchange proceeds obligatory and removed almost all restrictions on current payments. October 31. A prompt payment system was introduced for current transactions. 173 ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Ecuadoran Sucres 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to nearly all export receipts, to payments for all imports and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all contractual registered private foreign debt operations entered into a f ter July 14, 1961. For all other trans- actions there is a free market, in which the rates as at December 31, 1964 were S/ 18.49 buying, and S/ 18.52 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through which they must be settled. Most transactions pass through the off ic ial market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Transactions that do not qualify for the off ic ial market may enter the f ree market —conducted mainly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency Exchange proceeds must be received in convertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Prior import licenses are required for all per- mitted imports exceeding a value of US$100, except those financed by official foreign loans. However, the licenses are issued freely provided that the required taxes have been paid and the appropriate advance deposits have been made. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. The advance deposit requirement applies to almost all private imports, The exceptions are imports under the Agricultural Surplus 174 ECUADOR Agreement with the United States, imports of special types of cotton from countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association, all imports from Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by inter- national organizations or by suppliers' credit of at least three years, and imports made by the Government and official institutions. The deposit must be made in sucres by the importer be fo re the import license is issued. The rates are currently 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports in List I, 30 per cent for about 100 articles in List II, and 80 per cent for most other imports in List II. In practice the importer uses a part of the advance deposit to settle in advance 90 per cent of the consular fees and 50 per cent of the customs duties; the remaining part is used for payments for imports when such payments are authorized. A consular fee of 10% per cent of the f.o.b. value, and import taxes of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value and 3% per cent of the c.i.f. value, are levied on all imports. Moreover, an additional import tax of about 6 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of List I goods, and one of about 17 per cent on the c.i.f. value of List II goods; of these, 5 per cent on the List I goods and 15 per cent on the List II goods must be paid at the time the license is issued; the remaining import taxes, as well as the fees, are paid when the goods are cleared through customs. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles that may be made through the official market require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank; the license is granted freely for all authorized transactions. These transactions include invisibles connected with trade (e.g., freight and insu rance ); necessary expenses (i.e., travel, tuition, and living expenses up to US$100 a month) of Ecuadoran students abroad who are registered with the Central Bank; most payments of the Govern- ment and of official entities; contractual interest (and amortization) payments on loans and other obligations abroad which are registered with the Central Bank; payments of dividends, profits, and amortiza- tion on registered private foreign investment up to 15 per cent annua l ly; and contractual private foreign debt operations entered into and registered after July 14, 1961. Other payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except those of certain foreign mining companies require licenses to ensure, among other things, the fu ll sui^ender of the exchange proceeds. Minimum surrender prices are established 175 ECUADOR for exports of bananas (according to port of shipment, destination, and season) and for shrimps; exchange corresponding to those prices must be surrendered at the official rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the free market. Exports of coffee, cacao, and bananas are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent, 10 per cent, and 21.4 per cent, respectively.1 Exports of bananas are subject to an additional specific tax of S/ 1.2 a stem. Exports of rice by the National Development Bank receive a subsidy equal to the difference between its cost to the National Development Bank and the f.o.b. price; the average subsidy paid in 1964 was S/ 16.50 per quintal or S/ 3 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official entities have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts from invisibles (including those from tourism) may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the official buying rate. This also applies to foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses, if this capital is registered with the Central Bank. Foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can refuse to register foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the interest of the Ecuadoran economy at that particular time. All unregistered private capital may enter without limitation through the free market. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the with- drawal of registered foreign investment from Ecuador up to a total of 15 per cent per annum of the amount registered; this percentage includes dividends, profits, and amortization. Contractual repayments of registered foreign loans may also be made at the official rate. All other capital remittances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the free market. Capital receipts of the Government and of official entities are con- verted at the official buying rate, and payments at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from loans granted to the Government 1The export tax on bananas is levied on an assumed f.o.b. value expressed in sucres per pound that varies with province of origin, port of shipment, destination, and season. The official average weight per stem is 66.38 Ibs. for exports to the United States and 56.48 Ibs. for exports to other countries. 176 ECUADOR and official entities by foreign financing organizations are converted by the Central Bank at the official selling rate of S/ 18.18, instead of at the official buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Central Bank receives from the Treasury or the borrower a payment of S/ 0.072 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the normal spread between the official buying and selling rates. Changes during 1964 On a number of occasions during the year, the Monetary Board included in List II items formerly prohibited, or shifted items from List II to List I. January 15. Imports of capital goods financed by international organizations or by suppliers' credit of at least three years were exempted from the advance import deposit requirement. March 16. All taxes levied on the production, collection, and export of bananas, including the export tax of 5 per cent, were eliminated. A single export tax of 21.4 per cent, calculated on an assumed f.o.b. value, was substituted. April 18. Exports of some cereals were prohibited. April 18. Imports of certain foodstuffs were exempted from cus- toms duties and, in several cases, f rom import taxes. June 24. Payment for all permitted imports could be made by letter of credit. June 24. The rates of advance import deposit requirements were reduced as follows: for imports in List I, from 25 per cent to 15 per cent; for imports in List II, f rom 50 per cent to 30 per cent for about 100 items and from 100 per cent to 80 per cent for most other items. September S. All duties and taxes levied on cacao and coffee were eliminated. Export taxes of 10 per cent and 9.4 per cent, respectively, were levied on cacao and coffee. October 22. Decree No. 2401 made the official selling rate of S/ 18.18 per US$1 applicable to the conversion by the Central Bank of all loans granted by fore ign financing organizations to the Ecuadoran Govern- ment or official entities. 177 EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Salvadoran Colones 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are 0 2.49 buy- ing, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits and are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license imports and exports, but this power has not been exercised. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, and Nica- ragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled in Salva- doran colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Other- wise, residents are f ree to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents may be utilized freely, but the com- mercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received f rom abroad. The maximum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for all imports. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import 178 EL SALVADOR payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports f rom Central American countries and US$2,000 for imports f rom all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit calcu- lated on the value of the advance payment is required f rom the importer as a guarantee. The deposit varies according to the nature of the goods: 10 per cent on raw materials not produced domestically; 20 per cent on other raw materials and machinery; 50 per cent on manu fac tu red goods not classified as luxury items; and 80 per cent on luxury goods. Imports paid for against letters of credit are subject to a prior deposit of 25 per cent (10 per cent for imports of machinery, equipment, and raw ma ter ia ls). When the importer is a manu fac tu rer rather than a merchant, the prior deposit is usually waived. The deposit is re funded upon completion of the import transaction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Net profits may be remitted up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital. The commercial banks provide exchange up to the equivalent of US$200 a person each six months for tourist travel. For larger amounts, authorization by the Exchange Control Department is required; as a general rule, under such authori- zation, each person is granted up to US$30 a day while traveling abroad, subject to a maximum of US$2,000. Persons who require exchange in excess of US$2,000, for medical treatment abroad or for other special reasons, must deposit 25 per cent of the amount exceeding US$2,000 with the Central Reserve Bank at the time the authoriza- tion is issued; the deposit is re funded when the Department receives the required proof. The Department also authorizes transfers of up to US$500 a month plus US$50 f or each child to Salvadorans with perma- nent residence abroad. Students are allowed US$200 a mon th; those with families are allowed US$250 a month plus US$50 for each child. Foreign exchange in excess of the limits given above is seldom granted. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to take out up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but the proceeds of exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. 179 EL SALVADOR Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to bring in up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting f rom capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital, except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital in the fo rm of foreign investment is subject to the advance approval of, and registration by, the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) the remittance of net profits up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy at the time of registration of the investment) and (2) amortization payments, and repatriation of the proceeds f rom the sale of the assets of the enter- prise, provided that such payments do not exceed the value of the registered investment. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to enjoy the same facili- ties. For long-term foreign loans, the Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- rency for the payment of interest and amortization. The same treat- ment is granted to short-term foreign loans that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department. Changes during 1964 February 4. The limit on payments for imports and associated invisi- bles that could be made to other countries in Central America by commercial banks without the prior authorization of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank was increased f rom US$2,000 to US$6,000. June 16. Controls were relaxed over capital movements to other members of the Central American common market for the purpose of investment in those countries. 180 ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.5 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.48125 buying, and Eth$2.51875 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in foreign exchange appro- priate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars or sterling. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency which is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Most settlements with the United Arab Republic are made through U.S. dollar accounts estab- lished under the bilateral payments agreement with that country; settlements in respect of Suez Canal dues and exports of Ethiopian coffee are effected in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts in Ethiopian dollars at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any con- vertible currency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; for goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements, however, the usance must not exceed 90 days. 181 ETHIOPIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit a maximum of 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with an autonomous government organization and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency; for approved projects, they may also transfer amortization at the rate of 10 per cent per annum. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$100 a day for a maximum period of six weeks if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$l,050 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$735 a year for those under 16, if the journey is made for pleasure and/or vacation. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give details of the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within three months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. 182 ETHIOPIA Capital All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in wh ich foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises financed by fore ign cap i ta l; these con- cessions inc lude exemption f rom taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery f ree of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, t rans fer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency. Emigrants' allowances, transfers of legacies, and savings of foreign employees upon retirement are permitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Changes during 1964 January 1. The National Bank of Ethiopia assumed the functions of a central bank; these func t ions included the administration of foreign exchange control. January 20. The commercial banks' commission on foreign exchange transactions was reduced f rom 1 per cent to % per cent. The National Bank of Ethiopia established new official rates of Eth$2.48125 buying, and Eth$2.51875 selling, per US$1. February 1. The amount of Ethiopian currency which travelers could bring into and take out of Ethiopia was reduced from Eth$150 to Eth$100. February 1. Travelers were no longer required to declare the amount of foreign currency brought in or taken out. February 14. Authorized banks were permitted to open nonresident accounts in Ethiopian dollars. 183 FINLAND1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Finnish Markkas 3.20 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for certain other currencies 2 vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Finland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and dis- counts are left to the interplay of market forces. Off ic ia l, fixed, buying and selling rates are applied to a few currencies, including dollars, when used as a unit of account on bilateral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and certain other cur- rencies.2 Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 months; forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegat- ing authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial bank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office sub- ordinate to the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Office, which is presided over by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral coun tr ies3 and the convertible currency countries (all o thers). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement or in Finnish markkas through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the convertible cur- rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Payments for imports f rom Brazil may be made only to Brazilian banks. 1 In view of the changes that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 1, 1965. 2 These are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 8 Finland has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 184 FINLAND Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka Accounts, Restricted Markka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresidents in converti- ble or bilateral currencies.4 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kep t; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Capital Accounts; for payments to residents of F in land; and for withdrawals in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency, and for transfers abroad or w i thd rawa ls in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilateral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited with the equiva- lent in Finnish markkas of convertible currencies sold to an authorized b ank; with authorized remittances f rom residents of Finland to resi- dents of convertible currency countries; with transfers f rom other Convertible Markka Accoun ts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances ab road; and for transfers tc other Convertible Markka, Restricted Markka, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments agreements (see foot- note 3). They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in footnote 2, or the currency of the coun- try of the account ho lder; with transfers f rom another Restricted Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account holder; with the value of Fin- nish banknotes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in the country of the account ho lder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account ho lder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4 Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. 185 FINLAND 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with f u n ds available for credit to a Convertible or a Restricted Markka Accoun t; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a nonresident; w i th interest on the accoun t; with income from nonresident-held assets; and with sums obtained f rom the redemption of bonds. If the account ho lder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers f rom a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for the travel and living expenses in Finland of the account holder and nonresident members of his fam i ly or, if the holder is a firm, members of its staff traveling at the firm's expense, up to Fmk 1,000 for each person for each period of ten days; for payments not exceeding Fmk 1,000 for support of a person in distress in F in land; for payments for expenses incurred by a bank in administering the assets of the account holder; for investment in bonds quoted on the stock exchange and issued after August 31, 1939 which are not tied to any foreign currency and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the ho lde r; for acquisitions of shares on the basis of subscription rights to shares belonging to the same account holder and held in the custody of a bank; for the purchase through the Helsinki stock exchange of shares in place of other shares, held in the custody of a bank, that have been sold not more than a month b e fo r e; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for monthly transfers abroad up to Fmk 1,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last three years, provided that he is destitute in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. There are also special transfer accounts for nonresident funds await- ing repatriation. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license f rom the license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area.5 Certain other goods may be imported from the license-free area under the global quota system, by which import licenses are issued up to the limits of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups. Imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the related trade agreement. All other imports require individual licenses. 6From Brazil, however, only direct import is permitted; payment for goods of Brazilian origin must be made direct to a Brazilian bank. 186 FINLAND Exchange is granted without delay for all permitted imports on presentation of an application fo rm, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Importers of specific consumer durable goods must make payment abroad or deposit cash for their imports before customs clearance can be obtained; otherwise, payment for imports must be made within six months a f ter the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to maximum allow- ance or other conditions; for other transactions, with few exceptions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permis- sion has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 400 for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and Fmk 800 for each visit to other countries. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 200 in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few speci- fied cases. All foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Certain export firms are also per- mitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machin- ery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. 187 FINLAND Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident travel- ers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland, which is granted in certain circum- stances. Inheritances are in most cases transferable without limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automati- cally, up to Fmk 32,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for three years are permitted to repatriate their blocked assets (1) by annual installments of Fmk 2,500 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 25,000 (to the annual installments may be added interest accrued on the account calculated in conformity with the ordi- nary rate of bank interest paid on deposits), and (2) by ten equal installments for amounts exceeding Fmk 25,000. During the entire period of transfer, the funds must be held on special transfer accounts. Moreover, persons who have resided abroad since September 1, 1939 are permitted to repatriate freely blocked funds up to Fmk 10,000 if these funds had been deposited with a bank prior to that date. Nonresident bondholders may repatriate amounts fa l l ing due on account of redemption of bonds in markkas issued before September 1, 1939. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible currencies or by debiting a Con- vertible Markka Account, bonds or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident pur- chaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible, currency. No permission is needed for the acquisition of bonds issued after August 31, 1939 with funds classified as Capital Accounts, but proceeds of the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkas from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities by nonresidents and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. 188 FINLAND The regulations concerning fore ign investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Fin- land, wh ich considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission liberally, except where it would be contrary to the national interest. At the time the Bank approves an incoming transaction, it may state the conditions for repatriation of the invested capital. For- eign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of the enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is concern for the protection of natural resources, mainly forests. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets and the yields on their property owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surren- dered. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval. For direct investment, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish residents emigrating are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 2.500 a person. Changes during 1964 January 1. License-free import treatment was extended to a number of commodities listed under some 190 tariff headings and subheadings. These goods were previously imported under global quota arrange- ments; they included raw materials for the food industry, raw hides and pelts, leather for soles and pieces of leather, headwear, building bricks, excavating machinery, printing machinery, telephone and tele- graph apparatus, locomotives and rolling stock, and bicycles. January 1. As a result of the liberalization measure of the same date, the list of global quotas for 1964 was revised; it covered fewer goods than the 1963 list. The total value of the quotas was fixed at Fmk 402 million, which compared with an estimated value of Fmk 332 million in the final quota program for 1963 for the same group of commodities, i.e., excluding those liberalized on January 1, 1964. January 1. A fghan is tan, Bhu tan, Nepal, Trinidad and Tobago, and Yemen were included in the license-free area. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1965: January 1. A lban ia, Cuba, Malawi, Tanzania, United Arab Republic, and Zambia were included in the license-free area. February 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was terminated. 189 FRANCE Exchange Rate System The par value is Francs 4.93706 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of F 4.90 buying, and F 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely negotiated rates. Authorized banks in continental France ( inc lud ing Corsica) and in the Principality of Monaco, as well as banks established abroad, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. While authorized banks and banks established abroad may deal spot on this market in any currencies, the latter group of banks may carry out fo rwa rd operations only in currencies of countries in the area of convertibility. Authorized banks may also deal with their correspond- ents in foreign markets in all currencies except those of the bilateral group. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises (1) the territory of the French Republic, i.e., continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reun ion ), the Overseas Territories, except French Somaliland (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Po lynes ia); (2) the Condominium of the New Hebrides; and (3) Algeria, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Dahomey, Gabon, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Togo, Tunisia, and Upper Volta. Payments f rom France to other parts of the French Franc Area are free of restriction. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic A f f a i rs is granted exten- sive authority in trade and exchange control. Various departments of the Ministry are concerned with the issue and supervision of import and export documents, the issue of licenses for payments related to imports and exports, control of import payments and export proceeds, 190 FRANCE the preparation of decisions concerning, and control over, French investments abroad and foreign investments in France, and the prepa- ration of regulations concerning foreign trade and exchange. The Bank of France is concerned with the issue of licenses for trans- actions of a financial nature, controls relating to assets held abroad, the repatriation of income, transactions in foreign securities, etc. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area may be made in the currency of any part of that Area. Settlements with coun- tries in the area of convertibility, which includes all countries except Rumania,1 may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through Nonresident Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments to Ru- mania —the remaining country with which France has a bilateral pay- ments arrangement —are made by crediting a Ruman ian Foreign Account in Bilateral Francs. Payments f rom Rumania may be received through a Rumanian Foreign Account in Bilateral Francs, or in the same way as payments f rom countries in the area of convertibility. Settlements with Laos and Viet-Nam are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for a nonresident foreigner or for a French national who either has been residing abroad for at least two years or, before this two- year period has elapsed, has been accorded the status of a non- resident. Nonresident accounts in francs may not show a debit balance unless specifically permitted. French f ranc balances main- tained by nonresidents are not permitted to bear interest, except balances maintained by foreign central banks and international organ- izations. Residents of countries in the area of convertibility may maintain Nonresident Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; they are not related to a specific country. Residents of Rumania may maintain Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs may be used for settle- ments with residents of the French Franc Area (including settlements for imports and expor ts). They may be credited freely with francs 1This survey presents the position as at December 31, 1964. However, on March 1, 1965, the bilateral payments arrangement with Rumania was terminated, and Rumania was included in the area of convertibility, with all Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs becoming Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. 191 FRANCE obtained f rom sales of currencies of countries in the area of converti- bility in the exchange market in France or through a French author- ized bank in an exchange market ab road; with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; with French francs obtained f rom the sale of foreign banknotes; and with French banknotes and coins received by authorized banks from their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. They may be debited freely for purchases in the exchange market in France of any foreign currency negotiated in that marke t; for purchases of the currency of any country in the area of convertibility through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; for transfers to the credit of another Foreign Account in Convertible or Bilateral Francs; for the purchase of foreign banknotes; and for French banknotes and coins dispatched by authorized banks to their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs may be used for settlements with residents of the French Franc Area (including settle- ments for imports and exports), provided that the nonresident con- cerned resides in Rumania. They may be credited freely with pro- ceeds f rom sales in the exchange market in France of currencies of countries in the area of convertibility; with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; with French francs obtained from the sale of fore ign banknotes; and with French banknotes and coins received by authorized banks from their correspondents in Rumania. Transfers between Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs may be made freely. Other transactions through Foreign Accounts may be made by individual or general authorization. Three other categories of non- resident accounts (Tourist Accounts, Suspense Accounts, and Non- resident Internal Accounts) are of minor significance, in practice. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and brought f rom other parts of the French Franc Area are generally admitted free of quantitative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in countries out- side the French Franc Area and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into three groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) OECD countries in Europe, their dependent terri- tories and associated countries, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United 192 FRANCE States, and Yugos lav ia ;2 (2) 49 specified countries;3 and (3) all other countries. Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported from the next group of countries plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one group may be imported freely from any country in that group, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different countries in this group. Imports of 68 industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these 68 and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. Several agricultural products may be imported without quantitative restrictions from 11 countries,* on the basis of an import attestation visaed by the Director of External Economic Relations. For liberalized imports not exceeding F 10,000 in value, only an invoice has to be submitted to the customs; most liberalized imports exceeding this figure are admitted on the basis of a customs declaration completed by the importer. (These two procedures account for more than 75 per cent of imports.) Some liberalized imports (spare parts, etc.) require an administrative visa, which is stamped on an import attestation. But imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require individual licenses, which are issued auto- matically. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. How- ever, the application of other procedures is not excluded: (1) imports under quotas determined on an individual commodity basis 2 The treatment of all countries in this group is not identical, but the differences are small. 3 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, IsraeL Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 4 Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 193 FRANCE and app l icab le to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite pe r iod; (2) special import procedures which provide for the liberal importa- tion under IMEX and EXIM procedures 5 of raw materials or other goods needed to produce goods for export. Under the EFAC arrange- ments (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters are granted, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. The import facilities under EFAC arrangements, as well as those under IMEX and EXIM procedures, have only limited impor- tance, in view of the high degree of import liberalization. Imports effected through compensation transactions are mainly agricultural items from countries in the Soviet bloc and are a very small propor- tion of total imports. Imports exceeding F 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment is required before the goods reach France, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. For goods imported under the import declaration or attestation procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been domiciled with an authorized bank, arrange with the bank to purchase spot or forward exchange. As a general rule, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only a f ter documents have been presented to prove that the goods have been shipped. However, special authorization may be given to importers to purchase exchange forward for a period of more than six months and to make total or partial prepayment at a date preceding that of importation by more than six months. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are controlled, but applications for remittances are approved, provided that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. If ju s t i fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments without any limitation for many categories 5 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed to produce goods for export. Exports should be sent to the same monetary area as that from which the imports are obtained or to a "better" monetary area. The lag between importation and exportation may not exceed six months. Under the EXIM procedure, exporters are assured of receiving import licenses for the subse- quent importation of goods used in the production of their exports. The time lag between exportation and importation is six to nine months. 194 FRANCE of current invisibles, and up to established limits for many other cate- gories of current invisibles. Applications for other payments for invisi- bles are re fe r red to the Bank of France to prevent unau thor ized capital transfers. Payments wh ich may be authorized without limitation include those related to approved trade transactions; to maritime contracts of any k ind; to income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties; to banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; to specified insurance payments; to fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; to rents and similar payments due to nonresident owners and administrators of firms in France; to partici- pation in foreign congresses, conferences, etc.; to alimony in accord- ance with court decisions; to fees for education and cost of mainte- nance of students ab road; to business travel abroad; and to net salaries of nonresidents employed in France within three months f rom the date of payment. Payments up to established limits which may be approved include those by residents traveling abroad for pleasure (up to F 5,000 for each t r i p ), by residents for fam i ly ma in tenance (up to F 1,000 a month for each bene f ic ia ry ), and by residents on account of rebates, refunds, discounts, etc. (up to F 10,000). Also, authorized banks may approve payments up to F 500 for any purpose; subject to certain conditions, ihey may approve transfers up to F 2,500 to residents finding themselves abroad without means of payment. In addition to the exchange allocation for tourist purposes (up to the equivalent of F 5,000 for each t r ip ), authorized banks may grant resident tourists going abroad exchange for renting rooms and villas ab road; these tourists may freely make travel arrangements through licensed travel agencies operating in France or purchase credit cards in France for their traveling expenses abroad, without limitation, and buy tickets in France against French f rancs for any transportation abroad. Also, they are permitted to take with them up to the equivalent of F 1,000 in fore ign exchange (notes, coins, travelers checks, etc.) which they did not spend during previous travel abroad. Nonresident travelers leaving France may exchange into foreign currency French banknotes and coins up to F 1,000 without any formality, and larger amounts upon presentation of proof that such banknotes and coins were obtained f rom the sale of foreign currency or f rom debiting a nonresident account within the two months preced- ing their departure f rom France. Both resident and nonresident travelers crossing the border may take out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) up to 195 FRANCE F 1,000 in metropolitan francs, or up to F 75,000 in CFA francs or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in banknotes issued by any other bank of issue in the French Franc Area. These banknotes and coins may be spent abroad or exchanged for other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain limitations. Regardless of their value, exports under the IMEX or EXIM procedure, or through compensa- tion transactions with certain countries,6 require licenses if the com- modities are those for which export licenses are required; other- wise, they are subject to exchange commitments. Other exports are free of trade or exchange controls; such exports exceeding F 5,000 in value are subject to certain formalities designed to verify the sur- render of the exchange proceeds. Goods that are purchased in France by nonresidents against checks or travelers checks expressed in any currency, or against checks issued by foreign correspondents of French banks to the debit of nonresident accounts, are considered as exports and are exempt from turnover taxes. Exporters may grant credit for 180 days or, subject to administra- tive authorization, for a longer period; but thereafter, the proceeds must be collected within 30 days. Exporters are permitted to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. If payment is received in foreign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange market within three months, unless they were used for payments for author- ized transactions. Certain percentages of export proceeds are exempt from the surrender requirement and are kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. The highest percentage is accorded to holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enter- prises that export a certain percentage of their production. EFAC accounts are separate for each foreign currency; for proceeds received in francs f rom nonresident accounts, an account may be credited in convertible or bilateral francs, according to the type of nonresident f ranc account debited for the payment. EFAC accounts may be used only by the account holder for all authorized transfers abroad. 6 Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 196 FRANCE Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are" obliged to collect within a month from the date that payment is due proceeds accruing from services rendered by them abroad and, in general, all proceeds accruing f rom any other source abroad. If the settlement is in foreign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange market within three months, unless they were used for payments for authorized transactions. Residents are, however, exempted from this requirement in respect of proceeds of up to F 1,000 accruing from the collection of coupons of foreign securities held abroad and f rom immovable property located abroad. When the limit of F 1,000 is reached, such proceeds must be repatriated prior to March 31 of the year following the year in which the limit was exceeded. Travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by some banks of issue in the French Franc Area is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Residents returning from abroad may retain foreign exchange (notes, coins, travelers checks, etc.) up to the equivalent of F 1,000 for use during their next trip abroad. Capital All capital transactions involving nonresident interests must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized banks. Most outward transfers by residents for the purpose of making investments abroad require approval; these include direct investments in foreign enterprises as well as the establishment of branches by French firms. Requests for the authorization of direct investments abroad are approved liberally. Residents are permitted to deal in securities abroad, within the limitations described below. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents of French nationality may use such assets in accordance with a general or individual license. Residents of foreign nationality may dispose freely of their assets abroad. Residents of French nation- ality must repatriate within three months the proceeds f rom the sale of securities abroad, unless these proceeds were used to purchase other securities. This obligation also applies to residents of foreign nationality, to the extent that the securities sold have previously been purchased with funds they held in France. 197 FRANCE Transfers abroad are permitted freely in respect of legacies and dowries due to nonresidents and in respect of assets of persons of foreign nationality who, a f ter staying in France as residents, leave to establish residence abroad. Emigrants are allocated F 5,000 in addition to the tourist allowance; they may apply to the Bank of France for permission to transfer larger amounts. Within the limits described below, nonresidents may freely make direct investments in France and deal in securities in France. They are permitted to repatriate the proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of approved investments and f rom the sale of their securities in France. The fo l low ing investments may be made freely in France by non- residents: (1) subscriptions to an increase in the capital of a French company, provided that its shares are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France; (2) subscriptions, at the time of issuance, to shor t- term7 or long-term securities and bonds issued by a French public service organization or by a private enterprise having its head office in France, provided that the securities issued by the private enterprise are off ic ia l ly quoted on a stock exchange in France; (3) acquisition on a spot basis through the intermediary of a notary pub l ic of immovable property or rights to such property located in France, for which up to 50 per cent of the sales price may be financed with credit; (4) loans to residents of up to F 1 million (or its equivalent in foreign currency) provided that the rate of interest does not exceed 4 per cent and that the maturity is less than two y e a r s ;8 and (5) purchases of securities in France as described below. Other investments by nonresidents in France require individual licenses. Repatriation of the proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved investments is permitted. Dealings in securities are subject to special regulations; all dealings must take place on stock exchanges. Nonresidents are permitted to deal on a stock exchange in France in any security officially quoted on that stock exchange; and residents are permitted to deal in France or abroad in any security officially quoted on a stock exchange. Special conditions are, however, attached to transactions in certain foreign securities listed by the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs. Furthermore, purchases of French securities by nonresidents require prior license when they are to be made in any manner other 7 Although the exchange control regulations permit nonresidents to subscribe to short-term securities, the regulations of the National Credit Council do not. 8 At no time may the total outstanding amount of the loans obtained by a resident under these circumstances exceed F 1 million or its equivalent in foreign currency. 198 FRANCE than by purchase on a French stock exchange or at a price different from that officially quoted. Securities may be imported and exported freely through authorized banks as fo l lows: imported on behalf of residents or nonresidents; exported on behalf of nonresidents (except French securities belong- ing to residents of R um a n i a ), or exported on behalf of residents for the purpose of selling the securities in accordance with the regulations mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Dealings in securities on a spot basis may be made in France by all nonresidents; dealings on a fo rwa rd basis may be made only by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. Residents may carry out spot or forward trans- actions in securities on foreign stock exchanges. Nonresidents must make payments for securities purchased in France in accordance with prescription of currency regulations appli- cable to countries in the area of convertibility; they are permitted to transfer abroad the proceeds accruing f rom the sale of securities in France. Exchange proceeds f rom the sale of securities abroad by residents may be disposed of in one of the following ways: (1) repatriated and surrendered, (2) used to acquire securities abroad, or (3) if exchange control regulations in the country where the sale took place do not permit the transfer of proceeds f rom the sale of securities, ceded to a resident for the subsequent purchase of securities in that country. The purchase of securities by a resident on a stock exchange abroad can be financed by (1) the purchase of foreign exchange on the exchange market in France, (2) the use within three months of the proceeds f rom the sale abroad of securities by the seller, (3) the use of funds in foreign currency held by the buyer and not subject to surrender requirements, and (4) the use of funds in foreign cur- rency acquired f rom any person in the French Franc Area if such funds may not be repatriated because of exchange control regulations abroad. Changes during 1964 January 10. France ceased to invoke the provisions of Arti- cle XXXV of th General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade with regard to Japan. February 1. Eastern Germany was included in the area of con- vertibility. March 1. Czechoslovakia was included in the area of convertibility. 199 FRANCE March 19. Certain changes were made in the regulations concerning the assets in the French Franc Area of nationals of countries in that Area who took up residence abroad, and of foreign nationals who took up residence in the French Franc Area. Physical persons of the former category could, upon departure, be accorded nonresident status by the Bank of France; as such, they could open nonresident accounts (Foreign Accounts) and transfer from France their capital holdings in France. With the exception of public employees, such persons would automatically acquire nonresident status after a two- year stay abroad, unless an application to maintain their resident status was approved. Physical persons of the second category could, upon arrival, be accorded resident status by the Bank of France. With the exception of public employees, such persons would automatically acquire resi- dent status after a two-year stay in a French Franc Area country, unless an application to maintain their nonresident status was ap- proved. March 19. Holders of Nonresident Internal Accounts and dossiers were permitted, with certain exceptions, to purchase and sell foreign securities in France. March 31. Authorized banks were permitted to grant guarantees for the benefit of nonresidents for (1) the settlement of any debt contracted by residents, provided that the transfer relating to the settlement was covered by a general or specific authorization; and (2) the repayment of loans up to F 500,000 of any kind extended by nonresidents to branch offices outside France of companies having their head offices in France. April 10. Resident travelers were no longer obliged to surrender all foreign means of payment other than banknotes which upon their return to France remained from their tourist travel allocation; they could retain unutilized foreign exchange (including travelers checks) up to the equivalent of F 1,000, and take it out on a later trip together with any other foreign exchange covered by a general or specific authorization. April 29. Foreign investors were permitted to subscribe freely, on the issue date, to long-term and short-term debentures and bonds issued by French collective institutions or agencies, provided that, if the debtor was a private company, it had previously floated one or more loans in France, or the company's capital stock was quoted on all French stock exchanges (see also footnote 7). 200 FRANCE April 30. Authorized banks were allowed to permit transfers abroad to make payments up to any amount justified by proper documenta- tion (1) to workers, technicians, and engineers sent abroad by enter- prises established in France for training or for temporary employ- ment, (2) to travel agencies abroad for commission due by French hotels, and (3) in respect of tuition fees for correspondence courses. May 5. The fo l low ing were added to the liberalization group of 43 specified countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above): Iraq, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, and Yemen. June 7. Imports from GATT countries of goods covered by 27 tariff items were freed f rom quantitative restriction. These items included castor oil, walnuts, chewing gum, frozen f ru i t, certain fru it juices, carpets and rugs, specified knitted or crocheted fabr ic, travel- ing rugs and blankets, specified ferromanganese, specified base metals, scissors, certain parts for motorcycles, and gymnasium and athletic equipment. July 8. Transfers up to the equivalent of F 2,500 were permitted to residents traveling abroad who ran short of funds because of unusual circumstances, provided that the traveler had maintained a resident account with a French bank f or at least six months. August 14- Imports of the following goods from OECD countries in Europe, their dependent territories and associated countries, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia were freed from quantitative restriction: coconuts, pepper and mixtures of spices containing pepper, and palm oil other than for technical or industrial use. August 29. The import of rice f rom OECD countries in Europe, their dependent territories and associated countries, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia was freed f rom quantita- tive restriction. September 23. Imports of sweetened and other prepared forage were freed from quantitative restriction. October 1. The 1959 trade and tariff agreement with Tunisia expired. Goods of Tunisian origin and provenance became subject to the minimum tariff of import duties; imports from and exports to Tunisia remained sub ject to the general trade and exchange con- trol regime applicable to the French Franc Area, which included absence of quantitative import restrictions. October 12. The purchase and sale of Moroccan banknotes by French banks was suspended. 201 FRANCE November 1. Imports of dairy products and specified beef from all countries were freed from quantitative restriction. The import of these products f rom 11 countries (see footnote 4) could be made on the basis of an import attestation visaed by the Director of External Economic Relations. November 1. Exports of dairy products and specified beef were freed f rom quantitative restriction. 202 GABON Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f r an c. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Ministry of National Economy allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import program; it also issues import licenses, which must be approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Gabon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania, through Ruman ian Foreign. Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries, in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, provided that they originate in that Area. All imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program l fThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, and Congo (Brazzaville). 203 GABON and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R. and Mainland China, for each of which separate quotas are established. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for six months; the license may be renewed three times for imports of capital goods and twice, for three months at a time, for imports of supplies, provided that the importer presents valid reasons for requesting the renewal. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. A tax of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value of specified luxury imports is levied in addition to the customs duties; the specified imports include such items as crystal glassware, jewelry, air conditioners, refrigerators, radios, and phonograph records. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other coun- tries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Foreigners hired by contract and holding an employment card may transfer to their country of origin their total net salaries. There is a basic tourist allocation up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip to countries outside the French Franc Area. Travelers to those countries on business may obtain an amount in excess of the above limit for bona fide living expenses, the amount depending on the destination and the duration of the trip. Persons having the status of residents and traveling to other countries in the French 204 GABON Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. When traveling to other countries, they may take out banknotes up to a maximum of F 1,000 in French f rancs or francs issued by the Institute of Issue of the Overseas Departments or CFAF 75,000 or CFPF 75,000 in legal tender CFA or CFP notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country, minus the amounts of French Franc Area bank- notes that are taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. For exports to all other countries licenses, which are issued free ly, are required; exceptions are products whose export is unre- stricted (e.g., wood, manganese, cocoa), for which exchange com- mitments must be registered at the Exchange Office. The exporter undertakes to repatriate the export proceeds within a period of 180 days f rom the date of arrival of the goods at their destination. When settlement is made in a currency other than a French Franc Area currency, the exporter must surrender it on the Paris exchange market within three months fo l low ing settlement. Exporters may retain, however, between 8 per cent and 15 per cent of their export proceeds (depending on the commodity exported) in special, non transferab le EFAC accounts (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires), which may be used by the exporters themselves to make payments abroad for export promotion expenses and for moderniza- tion and expansion needs of their industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Under the Investment Code promulgated on December 4, 1961, any enterprise established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specific income. 205 GABON The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enter- prises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Gabon; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for preferential tax treatment for a period of up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of ,preferential treatment auto- matically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes wh ich are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above). Requests for approval of preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy and Planning, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Controls over foreign investments in Gabon are administered along the lines established by exchange control regulations in France. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with Gabon, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, wh ich was also applicable to transactions with Gabon, was terminated. June 1. Imports of many commodities were freed from quantitative restriction when originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France. 206 GABON December 8. The treaty establishing the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) was signed by Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon). It would enter into effect on January 1,1966. 207 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Exchange System The par value is Deutsche Mark 4.00 = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bundesbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. For the banks' transactions with their customers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for certain other currencies vary between limits wh ich result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by G e rm a n yl and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no restrictions on fore ign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, wh ich may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to any account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, inc lud ing the purchase of any foreign cu r rency; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, except savings accounts in deutsche mark of individual persons, may not carry interest, although general permis- sion has been granted to all credit institutions to pay interest on customers' balances held as cover for letters of credit. The Federal Republic of Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Foreign Trade Agency for Food and Agriculture (Aussenhandelsstelle fur Ernahrung und Landwirtschaft), 1The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 208 GERMANY Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments Quantitative restrictions are not applied to imports of most com- modities purchased f rom and originating in countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc; out of a total of some 6,900 items, 6,600 may be imported freely f rom those countries. In addition, some 150 items are liberalized for imports originating in European OECD countries and their dependent territories. Certain solid fuels are liberalized only when purchased and imported from other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Community. Imports free of quantitative restriction are not subject to licensing, and no prior control is exercised over such imports; however, an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as documentation for customs control and for statistical purposes, is required. For imports still subject to quantitative restric- tion (with certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through the post), an individual import license is required. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or account may be taken of conditions of price, delivery, quality, etc., or of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. For manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. No fees are charged for licenses to import manufactured goods. Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out freely; but when they involve certain countries, they are subject to certain conditions. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. 209 GERMANY The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traff ic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passen- ger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion-picture films.2 Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, only an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports—mostly strategic goods —are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims exceeding DM 3,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of Eastern bloc countries of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufac ture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. 2 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in Eastern bloc countries, and the acceptance of film services from Eastern bloc countries. 210 GERMANY Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license. However, domestic money market paper (Treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities—if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securities later at a definitely fixed price —may not be sold to non- residents without an individual license. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Changes during 1964 March 19. Banks were no longer permitted to pay interest on time deposits held by nonresidents; there was no change, however, in the banks' freedom to pay interest on savings accounts in deutsche mark held by individuals. The Bundesbank raised the minimum reserve requirements against banks' liabilities to nonresidents to the legally prescribed maximum rates. August 5. As part of a modification of the reporting requirements for certain financial transactions, the limit up to which export claims overdue for more than three months need not be reported was increased from DM 2,000 to DM 3,000. December 9. Crude oil, diesel oil, and fuel oil were made subject to import licensing. 211 GHANA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ghana Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Ghana pound is at par. The Bank of Ghana does not quote rates other than for the pound sterling; it deals in sterling at rates within % of 1 per cent on either side of parity, the statutory limits being % of 1 per cent on either side of parity. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange. Committee, under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, is responsible for drawing up a foreign exchange budget that establishes a maximum amount of foreign exchange to be used in payment for imports during any licensing year. The Ministry of Trade prepares an import and export plan, which is subject to approval by the Cabinet. The over-all import plan must correspond to the import ceiling set by the Foreign Exchange Committee. Applications for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorse- ment as follows: all government departments through the Office of the Planning Commission; State or semi-State industrial enterprises through the State Enterprises Secretariat; State Farms Corporations, the agricultural branch of the Workers Brigade, and the United Ghana Farmers Council Cooperatives through the Ministry of Agri- culture; and industrialists in the private sector through the Ministry of Industries. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade, who is responsible for the issue of import licenses. An exception is made for applications by the private sector for the import of consumer goods as well as for appli- cations by the National Trading Corporation; such applications are submitted directly to the Ministry of Trade. The Ministry of Trade is also responsible for issuing export licenses. An Exchange Control Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance, administers the allocation of exchange for pay- 212 GHANA ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange trans- actions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in Ghana pounds through Sterling Area accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in Ghana pounds to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in Ghana pounds from a Foreign Account, in sterling f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is freely exchangeable for sterling or Ghana pounds. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Ghana pounds held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts and f rom other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in Ghana pounds held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area countries, with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds 1 Ghana maintains such agreements with the following countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghana pounds unless otherwise no ted ): Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Eastern Germany, Guinea (U.S. dollars), Hungary, Israel (sterling), Mali, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic (sterling), Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreement w i th Dahomey is at present inoperative. 213 GHANA f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with t rans fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts, w i th pay- ments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilat- eral paymen ts agreement countries, and with proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for au thor ized payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Territorial Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of ano ther category, the purpose of wh ich is to receive funds that are not placed at the f ree disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for au thor ized payments, inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments A large part of the import trade is carried out through the state- owned Ghana ian National Trading Corporation. Other goods are imported by private importers who must be registered. Certain imports are prohibited. There are two open general licenses wh ich permit the f ree import of a few commodities (such as trade samples, personal household effec ts, gifts, and books ). All other imports require ind iv idual licenses, wh ich are issued within the limits of the foreign exchange budget established for each licensing year. A special foreign exchange allocation is provided w i th in the budget for imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries with centrally p lanned economies, and import licenses for some 35 commodities or groups of commodities contained in a special list are issued only for importa- tion from these countries. Licenses for imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries specify the bilateral partner country f rom wh ich the commodity has to be imported; licenses to import f r om countries outside the bilateral account group are valid for any of these countries. Licenses are norma l ly issued on a c . i .f. basis but are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Imports f rom South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. 214 GHANA Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by authorized banks. Imports by the private sector under individual licenses have to be financed on the basis of sight or acceptance documentary credits established by the importer with a commercial bank in Ghana. For acceptance documentary credits approval f rom the exchange control authorities must be obtained by the bank for a credit ceiling for the ind iv idual importer before such credits are established; in addition, banks are required to deposit with the Bank of Ghana a m in imum of 15 per cent of the value of letters of credit covering imports of consumer durab le goods. This advance deposit is charged by the commercial banks to the importer before opening the letter of credit. In practice, however, commercial banks require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Committee, and documentary evidence must sup- port all applications. The fo l low ing categories of payment are normally authorized in connection with the importation of goods: (1) the buying commission, this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted f rom the value of the import license; (2) the t ran s fer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buy ing commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c . i .f. value of the goods, and (3) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6% per cent per annum, provided that the license under which the goods are imported has been author- ized by the Ministry of Trade and that this ministry is satisfied with the acceptance terms. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the t ran s fer of funds to cover such charges are normally per- mitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. Insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency with local insurance com- panies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 50 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a maximum of £G 2,500 a year. Applications for remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are considered on their individual merits by the Exchange Control Committee. 215 GHANA Nonresident companies are permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., profits after payment of the prevailing 45 per cent tax on companies and of a 20 per cent withholding tax. The maximum annual travel allowance for Ghanaians is £G 50 for each person 12 years of age or over and £G 35 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana but domiciled elsewhere in the Sterling Area are allowed up to £G 250 out of their personal remittance quota. All residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them foreign currency notes (including CFA f ranc notes) equivalent to £G 60, provided that not more than £G 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian bank- notes may be taken out up to £G 10, but may be spent only on Ghanaian a ircraft and ships. Exports and Export Proceeds There are two open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade samples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to £G 10 in value, luggage, and gold coins commemorating the founding of the Republic.2 All other exports require specific licenses from the Controller of Imports and Exports prior to shipment: Most items are exported through the Ghana Agricultural Produce Market- ing Board. Exports to South A f r ica, South West Afr ica, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports within six months of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, except that CFA franc notes may be imported only with the approval of the Bank of Ghana. Travelers may not bring in Ghanaian currency notes in excess of the amount that may be taken out. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval if repatria- tion is to be guaranteed. The Capital Investments Act, which was promulgated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special bene- 2 Such coins may be taken out freely, subject to declaration, by persons who have spent at least six months in Ghana. 216 GHANA fits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the Act approval may be granted to investments that con- tribute to the development and utilization of productive capacity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. Investments granted "approved status" under this Act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enter- prises are nationalized in the public interest, f a ir compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel- opment. A Capital Investments Board, whose principal func t ion is to decide which foreign investments qua l i fy for benefits under the Act, has been established. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and return to their home country are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation show- ing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are very large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in registered government stocks, Treasury loans, or Treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Applications for the transfer abroad of funds by emi- grants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Changes during 1964 January 1. The administration of exchange control was transferred f rom the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Ghana. The Foreign Exchange Committee, responsible for drawing up a foreign exchange budget that established a maximum amount of foreign exchange to 217 GHANA be used in payment for imports, was put under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana. Import and export policy con- tinued to be formulated and implemented by the Ministry of Trade. An Exchange Control Committee, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Finance, administered the allocation of payments for invisibles and capital. January 1. The administration of import licensing for goods imported from bilateral payments agreement countries was changed. The special list which included 8 commodities that could be imported only f rom bilateral payments agreement countries was abolished; the same was true of the second special list of about 28 commodities for which licenses had been issued with the proviso that at least one fifth of the value of such licenses could be imported only from bilateral payments agreement countries. Instead, a special list con- taining some 35 commodities or groups of commodities was pre- pared, and import licenses for goods included in this list were issued only for importation f rom bilateral payments agreement countries with centrally planned economies. In addition, the previous practice of issuing licenses that were valid for imports f rom any bilateral pay- ments agreement country was discontinued, and import licenses for goods from the bilateral area now specified the bilateral partner country f rom which the commodity had to be imported. January 1. The practice of granting automatically an established initial remittance allowance of the personal liquid assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana and of emigrants was reviewed. Hence- fo r th, requests for such remittances would be considered on their individual merits. Applications had to be supported by appropriate documentation, such as evidence that the savings were genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital was involved. If the amounts involved were considerable, their transfer would be authorized over a period of a few months. January 10. Three open general licenses for imports were estab- lished. January 20. Six open general licenses for imports were established, in addition to those introduced on January 10,1964. February 21. All open general and individual import were revoked, except those covering flour, sugar, milk, and rice. February 24. Two open general licenses for imports were intro- duced; these covered such items as bona fide trade samples, gifts, books, newspapers, and fish. It was announced that the issue of individual import licenses would be resumed without delay, although at a reduced level. Priority was to be given to imports of machinery licenses 218 GHANA and equipment for various development projects, pharmaceuticals, chemicals for treating water, and essential foods. February 24. Two open general licenses for exports were established. April 1. It was provided that imports under individual licenses valid for 1964 had to be financed on the basis of sight or acceptance documentary credits established by the importers with a commercial bank in Ghana. For acceptance documentary credits, prior consent of the Exchange Control Authority had to be obtained by the opening bank for a credit ceiling for the individual importer before establishing such credits. In addition, banks were required to deposit with the Bank of Ghana a minimum of 15 per cent of the value of the letter of credit covering imports of consumer and consumer durable goods. This advance deposit was charged by the commercial banks to the importer before opening the letter of credit. Importers were no longer allowed to deposit sums with suppliers and draw upon these sums periodically for consignments of merchandise. June 1. The practice of allowing remittances abroad of income by self-employed foreign residents up to an established percentage of their annual earnings was reviewed. Henceforth, requests for such remit- tances would be considered on their individual merits by the Exchange Control Committee. Applications had to be supported by appropriate documentation, e.g., evidence of the applicant's unavoidable financial commitments abroad, proof that the amounts to be transferred repre- sented genuine earnings of the applicant, and proof that there were no tax liabilities and overdrafts outstanding. July 6. Statutory bodies and the private sector were required to channel their import applications through an appropriate ministry or government agency which endorsed those requests for imports considered to be essential. Endorsed applications were then for- warded to the Ministry of Trade for approval and issue of licenses. July 6. It was announced that in order to ensure a more effective control over the issue and utilization of import licenses the register of importers was to be reviewed in order to reduce substantially the number of licensed importers. August 1. The basic travel allowance of £G 50 a year was reviewed. Hencefor th, travel allowances ranging from £G 20 to £G 50 a year would be granted. August 6. Import licenses would normally be issued on a c.i.f. basis, with an endorsement to the effect that the insurance must be covered in Ghana. September 28. All import licenses issued on or before August 31, 1964 that had not been fu l ly utilized were revoked. 219 GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is Greek Drachmas 30.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Dr 29.90 buying and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom comb in ing the o f f ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, and the Currency Committee. Controls are implemented and applied by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are made on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved or in the currency and manner provided for by trade and payments agreements. Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account, or in the currency of the partner country.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible fore ign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies, with authorized pay- ments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in con- vertible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal and some settlements with Spain are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a bilateral account for settlement with Chile of trade in specified commodities. 220 GREECE currency. Any w i thdrawal f rom d rachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of fore ign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the conversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1% per cent per annum. Nonresident investors enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a minimum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 4% per cent and 5% per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferab le in the currency of the deposit. All d rachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Sub ject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that his account had been opened be fo re December 31, 1963 and the money deposited was derived f rom general revenue sources; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semi- annua l ly for remittance by each account holder, f rom accounts opened a f ter Janua ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively f rom rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may also be transferred abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Imports and Import Payments All imports require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effec ted without prior approval. The granting of an import license implies the allocation of appropriate foreign exchange. Apart f rom imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports f rom countries participating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for imports f rom Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. a id; (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agree- 221 GREECE ments when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing accoun t; and (4) for imports f rom Cyprus when payment is made in free Cyprus pounds or through one of the EMA countries. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications which have been approved by an au thor ized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports f inanced by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commodities in List A (cer ta in luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain food s tu f fs inc lud ing r ice) and List B (ce r ta in types of mach inery and spare pa r t s ). Imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek oil refineries require prior licenses. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum produc ts similar to those produced by Greek ref iner ies and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, su lphur, and motion pictures, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of app ly ing regulations concerning payments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-3, P-6, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Pay- ments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documen ts, or by acceptance of time d ra f ts (wh ich is per- mitted only for goods in Lists P-3 and P-6, the time limit being three months for List P-3 and one year for List P-6, except for machinery and spare parts, for which the time limit is three yea r s ). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve de fe r red payments for imports not inc luded in any one of the n ine lists. When time d r a f ts are accepted, a personal written under- taking amoun t ing to 4 per cent (List P-6) or 8 per cent (List P-3) of the amount of the d r a ft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made w i th in the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1-3, fu r ther cash deposits of 12-40 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required, as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under Procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for 222 GREECE imports under Procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight d ra f ts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security In per cent of invoice value 20 18 16 40 36 32 50 45 40 100 90 80 Total 70 63 56 140 126 112 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one ha lf of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a further deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days ( f or Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( f or the provinces) of obtain- ing the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods and advance deposits are refunded. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and pub l ic utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-3, P-6, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods on List F-50/3. 223 GREECE other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (accident and l i f e) are au thor ized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for fam i ly reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to US$200 for each trip and for any number of trips a year. Exporters and manu fac tu re rs are allowed US$20 a day for a maximum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a maximum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or f rom other businessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 2,000 in Greek banknotes. Nonresident travelers holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange when leaving Greece if the amount of such exchange exceeds US$500 or its equiva- lent; no declaration is required from holders of foreign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 150 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manu fac tu res and up to one year for other commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disburse- ments and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of fore ign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 2,000 in Greek banknotes. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality need not declare their holdings of foreign exchange at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. 224 GREECE Capital Investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise con- tribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted prefer- ential treatment. Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, fur ther privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as fo l lows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year f rom the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations f rom the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Speci- fied foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential 225 GREECE treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Changes during 1964 January 13. The foreign exchange allocation of US$200 a trip for travel abroad for fam i ly reasons, tourism, or business was made avail- able for any number of trips a yea r; previously, the allocation had been limited to two trips a year. February 5. Restrictions on withdrawals f rom blocked accounts were eased. May 1. Lists F-50 and F-100 were abolished and products previously included in these lists were transferred to six new commodity lists— F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3. Many advance deposit rates were changed. June 12. The spread between the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar was reduced f rom Dr 0.30 to Dr 0.20. Thus, the buying rate was raised f rom Dr 29.85 to Dr 29.90 per U.S. dollar, while the selling rate was lowered f rom Dr 30.15 to Dr 30.10. The spread between the off ic ial buying and selling rates for other currencies quoted by the Bank of Greece was also reduced by one third. October 1. Interest rates on nonresidents' time deposits established under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 were increased f rom 4 per cent to 4.5 per cent for deposits of 6-12 months; f rom 4 per cent to 5 per cent for deposits of 1-2 years; and from 5 per cent to 5.5 per cent for deposits for longer periods. October 81. The agreement under which settlements with Turkey were channeled through centralized accounts was terminated. 226 GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is Guatemalan Quetzal 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currenc iesx on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua tema la; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund maintained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central American countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and f rom other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poultry, and wheat flour. Importers must register with an authorized bank any firm order to import mer- chandise. (Imports originating from Central American countries and 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 227 GUATEMALA included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt f rom this requirement.) Registration is never refused for bona fide imports. Importers then have 90 days in which to effect their registered imports; in practice, however, this period is not rigorously enforced. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the authorized banks. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for specified imports from Central American countries. Payments for imports which have to be fu l ly or partially prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof that the import will be delivered; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the original documents usually required by the Guate- malan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports f rom customs must be obtained from the Exchange Department, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department issues such authorizations without delay. The customs officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and the actual conditions. For the specified imports from Central American coun- tries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Depart- ment or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Department, giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertakes to pay in the future. If these forms are com- pleted at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported f rom countries with which Guatemala has an unfavorab le trade balance. On December 31, 1964, 228 GUATEMALA this surcharge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.2 This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed uniform tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, -and Nicaragua do not require author- ization By the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for current invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to verify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from and repayments of registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely. For certain pay- ments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange allowance equivalent to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tourist travel abroad, as follows: to Central America, Q 300; to Mexico, Panama, and the Caribbean area, Q 750; and to the rest of the world, Q 2,500. Minors not traveling alone are entitled to half these allowances. The exchange allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the world. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for family maintenance is Q 250 a month for each relative (Q 200 for those under 18 years of age), up to a maximum of Q 700 a month for each beneficiary family. Foreign technical personnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their families reside abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently may, subject to individual approval, transfer their savings up to the fu ll amount of their earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students7 expenses abroad. a Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands Antilles, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 229 GUATEMALA The export of Guatemalan banknotes is not prohibited; however, Gua tema lan banknotes received f rom abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the fo l low ing limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 300,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license f rom the Exchange Depart- ment of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American coun- tries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt f rom this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold or have been committed to be sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a f u ll description of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold or committed to be sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration showing the value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the declaration date. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All out- going capital payments require exchange licenses, which are granted freely in respect of remittances of proceeds f rom the liquidation of all registered foreign investments. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted. 230 GUATEMALA Changes during 1964 May 5. The exchange allocations for tourist travel to various coun- tries were increased. The maximum exchange allocation a person for tourist travel in any one year was raised from Q 1,500 to Q 2,500. The exchange allocation for business travel was raised to Q 750 for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and to Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the world. May 5. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently could, subject to individual approval, transfer their savings up to the fu ll amount of their earnings received in Guatemala. June 1. Applications for foreign exchange for the payment of imports could be processed directly by the authorized banks; pre- viously such applications had to be presented to the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala for approval. Exceptions to the new provisions were applications for foreign exchange that were not accompanied by the required supporting import documents, as well as those for imports on a c.o.d. basis; such applications con- tinued to require the approval of the Bank of Guatemala. 231 GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Guinean f ranc (introduced March 1, 1960), defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 50 = 1 French franc and GF 246.853 = US$1. Exchange transactions of the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea with the public are carried out at fixed rates. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea is the only authority in exchange control matters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office, which is administered by the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require individual licenses from the Exchange Control Office. The National Licensing Commission screens all applications for import and export licenses. Licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Banks (the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade) only for those applica- tions which are submitted by the National Licensing Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral pay- ments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Trans- ferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies; Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Guinean Francs; and Blocked Accounts. 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Ghana, Hungary, North Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Mali, Morocco, Poland, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There is also a clearing arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. 232 GUINEA Balances in Blocked Accounts, which are maintained in Guinean francs, represent funds held with Guinean banks by nonresidents when their businesses were nationalized. When the commercial banks were liquidated, these balances were transferred to the Credit National, the principal government-owned deposit bank. No regulations have yet been issued to permit debits to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports require individual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Banks: the authorization for the corresponding payments is granted by the Exchange Control Office a f ter the import license has been screened and approved by the National Licensing Commission. Once an import license has been issued and approved, this constitutes a guarantee that the foreign exchange for that import will be made available. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is established by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Banks on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibilities of import substitutes, commit- ments under bilateral agreements, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires approval by the National Licensing Commission, which takes into consideration the amount of imports foreseen under the program, the sources of imports, and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. The program is then submitted for government approval. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived f rom sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea, e.g., imports made by certain foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the Compagnie Miniere de Conakry) and by foreign embassies. These additional imports amount to about 25 per cent of the value of the import program. Almost all goods included in this program are imported by state trading companies that specialize in various types of commerce. In order to encourage the repatriation of foreign exchange, a relatively liberal policy is followed with regard to the issue of import licenses to foreigners residing in Guinea who hold foreign exchange abroad. In such instances, the import of products not included in the import program is also permitted. 233 GUINEA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office. Exchange for various purposes is granted as fo l lows: (1) Expatriate workers in Guinea may transfer abroad up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if employed in the private sector and up to 40 per cent if employed in the public sector. (2) Payments for fam i ly support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether a child or an adult. (3) For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may t rans fer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. (4) There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each application is considered individually, a restrictive policy being fo l- lowed in this respect. Individual authorization also is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. (5) Applications for exchange for business travel are considered on their merits. (6) Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000. (7) Import licenses are issued on a c . i .f. basis. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. (8) The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of foreign investments may be transferred abroad. The percentage actually permitted to be transferred depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Govern- ment. (9) In addition to any other transfers they may be permitted to make, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pineapples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus f ru it exported. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Commerce establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Licensing Commission and the Government. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreemen ts); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores expor ted); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of 234 GUINEA historical or ethnographical interest, jewe lry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Most exports other than those effected by foreign companies are made by a state institution, Guinexport. Exports of diamonds are made through a free diamond exchange (Bourse de Diamants) and export licenses are granted only to brokers registered with the Bourse. Foreign planters are granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus f ru it exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). All export proceeds must be surrendered; the Fria company, how- ever, is allowed to retain two thirds of its export proceeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately a f ter they are collected. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry. Nonresidents may retain the foreign banknotes they brought in and may sell them locally to finance their expenses, whereas Guinean nationals are required to surrender all foreign banknotes they bring in. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transactions and transfers involving nonresidents are sub ject to individual licenses. A foreign investment law of April 6, 1962, which replaced the more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against national- ization for foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits and proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of such investments. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this code. Changes during 1964 October 10. A. bilateral payments agreement with Sierra Leone was signed. November 8. With minor exceptions, Guinean nationals holding foreign exchange abroad could no longer use this exchange for import payments. 235 GUINEA November 8. A Ministry of Foreign Trade and Banks and a Ministry of Domestic Trade were created. Attached to the former were the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade and the export company Guinexport. Attached to the Ministry of Domestic Trade were the import and distribution companies; this ministry included the Office of the Director of Domestic Trade. November 11. A bilateral payments agreement with Algeria was signed. 236 HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is Haitian Gourdes 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commissions. There are no controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative residents are not subject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the fo rm of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require licenses. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation, wh ich is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the fo rm of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected f rom residents of Haiti. Changes during 1964 April 22. Importers were required to obtain the approval of the Department of Commerce and Industry prior to placing purchase orders abroad for footwear made of leather or imitation leather. 237 HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is Honduran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 1.98 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates plus an official exchange commission of % of 1 per cent. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased f rom local banks without restriction; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Mexico, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made f r e e l y; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not sub ject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. 238 HONDURAS Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place in 1964. 239 HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. As at December 31, 1964, rates in the official market were Is. 3Vs2cL buying, and Is. 21%6d. selling, per HK$1, or HK$5.68% buying, and HK$5.76% selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$5.76 buying, and HK$5.76% selling, per US$1. The official market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informa l ly by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The off ic ial rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. F if ty banks are authorized to conduct exchange trans- actions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the off ic ial market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the fo l low ing paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made f rom Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong f rom, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the fo l low ing: (1) bona fide trade between 240 HONG KONG Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an authorized bank or for the settle- ment of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide family remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports from these terri- tories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The proceeds of exports to all other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling f rom an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency emanating f rom outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for ster- ling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be surrendered to an authorized bank ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling Area; however, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds f rom freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming pay- ment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a foreign currency f rom outside Hong Kong and which is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated the same as accounts of residents of Hong Kong ), those of rec- ognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. 241 HONG KONG The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except tha t, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any payment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited free ly, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable and dangerous commodities, imports are f ree of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are fu l- filled, and if related shipping documents are presented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports f rom the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding £10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports f rom the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to Ma in land China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports f rom Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t ), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, payment is required in advance of shipment,8 and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of currency requirements; (2) 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically1, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. 8 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. 242 HONG KONG goods imported specifically for re-export; and diamonds, ships, and boats. (3) all imports of Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require app rova l; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The au thor ized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange control fo rm is required when the payment does not exceed £100 or the equ iva len t ). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control, wh ich is normally granted. The basic a l lowance of exchange at the off ic ial rate for resi- dents ( f or exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is £250 or the equivalent for each ind iv idual jou rney. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of certain strategic goods and of such commodities as textiles and garments are subject to restrictive licens- ing. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control. The U.S. do l lar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Ma in land China, the Repub l ic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are f ree ly disposable to the extent of the f .o .b. va lue of the goods; proceeds f rom f re ight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, f rom other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in Main- 243 HONG KONG land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that fre ight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign capital is normally provided at the official market rate if the exchange control had given prior approval of the investment. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free market. However, licenses are required for all receipts f rom, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1964 March 20. Hong Kong applied the provisions of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade in its relations with Japan. 244 ICELAND 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Icelandic Kronur 43.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 42.95 buying, and IKr 43.06 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such cur- rencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed. The au thor ized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Exchange Control Territory Iceland is part of the Sterling Area —the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce has the ultimate decision on matters concerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the Na t ional Bank of Iceland and the Fish- eries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in fore ign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with the seven countries with which Iceland main- tains bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as fo l lows: with Ruman ia and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic k ronu r; with Brazil, Hungary, and Poland, in sterling; with Czechoslovakia, in Icelandic kronur and Czechoslovak korunas; and with Eastern Germany, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts f rom other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. do l lars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some *In view of the change which took place on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 245 ICELAND other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents f rom residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars or sterling. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with payments f rom residents. imports and Import Payments All goods not included on the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely without an import license f rom any coun try; in 1963, such imports constituted 72.4 per cent of the value of total imports. Commodities listed under some 450 customs headings or their parts (mainly live animals, foodstuffs, and a large number of other consumer goods) are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Most of these goods are admitted, sub ject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral pay- ments agreements. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted f rom the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported f rom bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are generally issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of % of 1 per cent (mini- mum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports f rom countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 25 per cent is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license for automobiles from all sources. 246 ICELAND Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment f rom abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. An exchange allocation for tourist travel is granted up to US$280 a year, or its equivalent in other currencies, for each person. Applications for exchange for repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and a i rc ra f t, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign banknotes and coins which they possess legally, and Icelandic banknotes and coins not exceeding IKr 2,500. Nonresidents may re-export the foreign banknotes and coins, and up to IKr 2,500 of the Icelandic banknotes and coins, which they brought into Iceland. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and a ircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts f rom freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the 247 ICELAND homeward jou rney of the ship or a ircraf t. Icelandic insurance com- panies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned f rom premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the fo re ign exchange was earned. Residents may br ing in, upon re-entering the country, up to IKr 2,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins; the limit f or nonresident travelers is IKr 5,000. There are no limitations on the import of fore ign banknotes and coins. Capital All foreign investments in Iceland are sub ject to individual approval. The participation of nonresidents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 50 per cent. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their re transfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender fore ign exchange accru ing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applica- tions for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The Contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for wh ich the produc t ion process is lengthy, construction materials, etc. Commercial banks may freely permit import credits of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, pre- cious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported f u n d s; the t ran s fer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. 248 ICELAND Changes during 1964 March 5. The provisional accession of Iceland to the General Agreement on Ta r i f fs and Trade was approved by the CONTRACTING PARTIES. July 1. The permission to use free ly suppliers' short-term credits of up to 90 days was withdrawn for a large number of imports, including specified foods, portland cement, pe r fumes, sanitary goods, various types of clothing, leather goods, lamps, carpets, precious and semi- precious stones, sewing machines, typewriters, bicycles, watches and clocks, fu rn i tu r e, and toys. August 1. The import of a number of commodities listed under some 30 ta r i ff headings or their parts, and previously included in the restricted list, was liberalized. The goods included f ru it ju ices, vege- table ju ices, articles of f u r, wall and floor tiles, and glass mirrors. NOTE. —The fo l low ing change was made early in 1965: January 1. An import license fee of 25 per cent was introduced on imports of automobiles f rom all sources. 249 INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Transactions in foreign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as fo l lows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of the London market rates for sterling against the other currency con- cerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of foreign currencies in the London market, and to cover their per- mitted transactions in certain currenc iesJ against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country out- side the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1964, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. 53%2d. selling, per Re 1, and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were Rs 4.7625 buying, and Rs 4.7950 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India, in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries,2 and the Convertible Account group (a ll other countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special rupee payments agreements with Pakistan and the United Arab Republic for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis and within a specified ceiling. The State Trading Corporation of India maintains special payments arrangements with Jordan and Tunisia. 250 INDIA Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India. Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or sterling to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 3 or in any listed currency.4 Receipts f rom the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency,4 in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest and dividends, and other authorized payments, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds f rom sales of the currency of the country or mone- tary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of sterling from the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports, and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for remittances by Indian nationals resident in the Sterling Area for credit to their accounts in India or for payment to Indian 3 All remittances by nationals of Mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to Mainland China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to Mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. * *The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, Federal Republic of Germany, French Franc Area, French Somali Coast, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, United Arab Republic,, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 5 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 251 INDIA nationals resident in India. Transfers may be made from Convertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts, and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and inter- est on securities; re funds of amounts previously debited or over- charged; proceeds f rom checks issued by the L i fe Insurance Corpora- tion in respect of maturity or death claims and surrendered value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; and proceeds f rom the sale of Indian Government securities and of units issued by the Unit Trust of India which were originally purchased from funds in the same nonresident account. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on l i fe insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due from the account holder in Ind ia; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents; investment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted f rom non- resident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances on blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities; the income derived f rom such investments may normally be remitted to the owner's country, with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require individual licenses. Individual licenses may be issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period and to actual users on the basis of their entitlements/certified requirements. Generally licenses may be used to import f rom any country except South A f r ica and South West Africa. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foodstuffs, capital goods, raw materials, 252 INDIA and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for established importers and actual users. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis, subject to the condition that only the first half of the annual license may be used in the first six months of the validity period of the annual license, and the second half of the license will, subject to such change as may be decided upon, be endorsed for use in the second six months and within the extended period of validity allowed for this purpose. In other cases, licenses are issued for the first six months, and a supplementary license is issued later for the second six months. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fu lf i ll government contracts and for irrigation projects. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange con- trol copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not no rma l ly a l lowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manu- facturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Except for travel, insurance, and a few other items, foreign exchange is granted freely for such payments, especially for expenses incidental to t rade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited f rom taking out l i fe insurance policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remit- tances to Indian nationals who emigrated on or af ter January 1, 1963 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or are subject 253 INDIA to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration fac i l i t ies; such remittances are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Au thor ized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals other than nationals of Pakistan up to Rs 1,500 a month, provided that this amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the remittor's net income. Nationals of Pakistan are allowed to remit up to Rs 50 a month for the support of their dependents in Pakistan. Applications for fore ign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual basis. Travel agents and companies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons resident in India unless the traveler has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage. The export of Indian currency notes and coins except by travelers to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers to Ceylon and Pakistan, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time. Residents may take out fore ign notes and coins up to Rs 40 a person: authorized money-changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of Rs 40 a person to all passengers, whether Indian or foreign, who have made payments for the fa re in rupees in Ind ia; non- residents may take out the foreign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most com- modities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to Pakistan of potatoes, potato seed, and onions are allowed under open general license. Exports to South Africa, South West Afr ica, and Tibet are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the f u ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. 254 INDIA Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currenc ies6 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on July 8. 1947 in a sterling account held by him, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles in certain currencies 6 must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, pro- hibited. However, deck passengers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r i c a, and travelers f rom Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount f rom India. Persons coming to India f r om Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding duly certified declaration forms may sell the relevant currency notes to any money-changer or authorized dealer in foreign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to fo rm part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after Jan- uary 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreci- ation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds f rom liquidated fore ign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals ( inc lud ing persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange fac i l i t ies for emigration pur- poses. In exceptional cases, foreign exchange may be released up to 6 The list includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies (including sterling), Djibouti francs, East A f r ican shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malayan dollars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 255 INDIA a limit of Rs 20,000 at the time of emigration and in three subsequent annual installments of Rs 10,000 each. The remainder of an emi- grant's assets are b locked; only income on such blocked assets is thereaf ter allowed to be remitted up to a limit of Rs 20,000 per annum. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds f rom the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in Ind ia; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to non- residents require approval, as does also the sale, t rans fe r, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations. Changes during 1964 February 12. Remittances of commission by exporters to ' th e ir selling agents abroad no longer required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, provided that the agency agreement was registered with the Reserve Bank and that the documents were negotiated or sent for collection by the authorized dealer making the remittance. March 23. Iranian nationals were permitted to effect family remit- tances not exceeding Rs 100 a month a fam i ly to Iran. March 31. The import licensing policy for the year ending March 31, 1965 was announced. Quotas were cut for some low priority items or items where indigenous production had increased, and quotas were increased for some items essential to production for export and defense purposes. There was also some liberalization of import items required by small-scale industries. Import of five additional items were prohibited. May 15. All bank accounts in India belonging to Chinese nationals who had le ft India, irrespective of their present residence, were b locked; all operations on such accounts required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. May 21. The daily foreign exchange allowances for certain types of travel were increased. July 11. Exports of many crude and refined vegetable oils, includ- ing groundnut oil, became subject to individual export license. 256 INDIA July 17. Two bilateral accounts in Indian rupees were established for settlement of trade with Pakistan in specified commodities. August 29. It was announced that Bengal Deshi cotton would be licensed freely for export during the 1964-65 season (September- August) . September 30. Authorized dealers were required to extend world- wide validity and negotiability to the travelers checks and travelers letters of credit issued by them, except those issued for travel to countries with which India had entered into bilateral payments arrangements. October 8. The general permission was withdrawn under which authorized dealers could freely take up from, or grant to, principals, correspondents, and offices in the Sterling Area short-term loans and overdrafts. Henceforth, authorized dealers were freely permitted to grant or take up loans and overdrafts up to Rs 2 million to or f rom principals, correspondents, and offices abroad; lending or borrowing of sums in excess of that amount required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. October 14. It was announced that all importers would be granted the same import facilities during the second half of the year ending March 31,1965, as they had been given for the first ha l f. October 16. The authorized dealers' authority to make remittances of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India by persons permanently resident outside India was extended to such dividends and interest accruing to Indian nationals who, after emigration, had taken up permanent residence abroad before Jan- uary 1, 1963. Such remittances to Indian nationals who emigrated on or after January 1, 1963 required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or were subject to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration facilities. November 2. Iranian nationals were permitted to make family remittances on the same scale applicable to other foreign nationals temporarily resident in India. 257 INDONESIA 1 Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial rate is Rp 45.00 per US$1, but this is used only for accounting purposes. There is a basic rate of Rp 250 per US$1, o f f ic ia l ly called the transaction rate, wh ich is used for certain essential imports and also serves as the basis for the calculation of the effec t ive rates for all other payments and receipts. Exporters receive a Production-Inducement Certificate (SPP) entitling them to an automatic allocation of exchange equivalent to 20 per cent of their exchange receipts, and exporters in certain areas receive an additional certificate (SPP-Tambahan) entitling them to a fu r ther 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds. The SPP is transferable and is required for the importation of various goods. The free market rate of the SPP was Rp 6,625 per US$1 on December 31, 1964; dur ing most of 1964, the Bank Indonesia offered these certificates at rates less depreciated than the f ree market rate. The effective rate for exporters amounts to the transaction rate plus 20 per cent (in some cases 30 per cent) of the SPP ra te; the rate for importers using the SPP is based on the transaction rate plus 100 per cent of the SPP rate. Furthermore, the Bank Indonesia has offered "special" SPP's at rates less depreciated than those prevailing for SPP's. An exchange fee (LAAPLN fee) of 5 per cent is levied on all payments for imports and invisibles, except those for Category I imports effected at the transaction rate; this fee is calculated on the basis of the rate of Rp 250 per US$1. Payments for imports effected with government-allocated foreign exchange, except those settled at the transaction rate, are sub ject to a compulsory levy of Rp 1,350 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). There are three effective buying rates: (1) The rate of Rp 520 per US$1 is applicable to all invisibles and capital and to transactions with oil companies; it is formed by adding to the transaction rate 20 per cent of the initial SPP rate of Rp 1,350 per US$1. (2) The rate of Rp 1,575 per US$1 applies to all exports other than those f rom the "former counterbarter trade a r e a " ;2 it is formed by adding to the transaction rate 20 per cent of the SPP rate prevailing in the f ree market. (3) The rate of Rp 2,237 per US$1 applies to all xln view of certain changes introduced on December 28 and 31, 1964, this survey on the whole presents the situation on December 27, 1964. The exchange rates, however, are those for December 31,1964. 2 This area, in or near Sumatra, includes the regions of A t j e h, Nias Islands, Riau Propet, and Djambi. 258 INDONESIA exports f rom the "former counterbarter trade area"; it is arrived at by add ing 30 per cent of the prevailing free market SPP rate to the transaction rate. There are seven effective selling rates: (1) The transaction rate of Rp 250 per US$1 applies to most Category I imports for which the Government allocates foreign exchange. (2) The rate of Rp 262, resulting f rom the addition of the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee to the transaction rate, applies to government payments for invisibles. (3) The rate of Rp 1,600, obtained by adding the transaction rate and the compulsory levy of Rp 1,350 per US$1, applies to a few Category I imports for which the Government allocates exchange. (4) The rate of Rp 1,612 applies to Category II and III imports for which the Government allocates foreign exchange, to nongovern- ment payments for invisibles, and to all capital; it is the transaction rate plus the Rp 1,350 levy plus the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee. (5) The rate of Rp 3,612 applies to imports financed with "special" SPP's obtained f rom the Bank Indonesia; it is calculated by adding to the transaction rate the prevailing rate for the "special" SPP and the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee. (6) The rate of Rp 6,875 applies to Category I imports financed with SPP's bought on the free market; it is the transaction rate plus the free market rate of the SPP. (7) A rate of Rp 6,887 applies to other imports financed with SPP's bought on the free marke t; it is calculated by adding to the transaction rate the free market rate of the SPP and the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee. For West Irian (Irian Barat) there are special exchange arrange- ments involving a separate currency. The rate of the Irian Barat rupiah is fixed at IBRp 3.62 per US$1. All trade and financial transactions with Malaysia have been suspended. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Institute (which is under the direction of the Bank Indonesia), on whose beha lf combined import and exchange licenses are issued by the Bureau for Import-Exchange Licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Bureau for Exports. The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to the Foreign Exchange Institute, the Bank Indonesia, authorized commercial banks, and the customs. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Generally, payments are made in convertible currencies, but settlements with Mainland China, with which Indonesia has a bilateral 259 INDONESIA payments arrangement, are made through a special clearing account. In addition, under an arrangement between the Bank Indonesia and the Netherlands Bank, payments for imports f rom the Nether- lands may be settled through a special account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are classified as (1) accounts of foreign banks or (2) all other nonresident accounts. 1. Accounts of foreign banks. Balances that have been created by transferr ing foreign currency to Indonesia are freely convertible into the same currency and may be transferred freely to accounts of nonresident banks of the same monetary area. 2. All other nonresident accounts. The opening of these accounts and all entries require permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Institute. These accounts are designated as Capital Accounts or Income Accounts, and transfers from the former to the latter are not allowed. For nonresident accounts of private persons, the authorized exchange banks have been given permission to make routine personal payments in Indonesia and yearly transfers up to a maximum of Rp 210,000 in the currency of the nonresident to the debit of his Income Account. The granting of licenses for remittances to the debit of Capital Accounts, i.e., capital remittances and remittances of inheritances, has been sus- pended, except in special circumstances, since January 1,1954. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and a deposit is required for registration. Most imports require licenses, which are issued in accordance with an exchange budget; Category V imports (see below) require, in addition, the special consent of the Minister of Trade. Imports by state enterprises account for approximately 70-80 per cent of total imports. Imports are classified in five categories: Category I includes certain essential items, e.g., rice, fertilizers, and medicines; Cate- gory II includes exchange-earning or exchange-saving raw materials, semifinished goods, and capital equipment; Category III includes other raw materials and semifinished commodities used to produce goods for domestic consumption; Category IV includes nonluxury finished goods for domestic consumption; and Category V includes luxury goods. All other imports are prohibited or are not licensed. An import license is issued only for the c. & f. value of the import; insurance must be obtained in Indonesia. After obtaining an import license, the importer must conclude an exchange contract with an 260 INDONESIA authorized bank. The bank then opens a letter of credit, provided that the importer has paid a 2 per cent contribution to the National Monument and Mosque Fund and the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee. Most Category I imports and other special imports of small value are exempt from these fees. A 100 per cent cash cover against letters of credit is required for most imports; there are, however, a few exceptions, such as imports by industries of raw materials for their own use. Import duties have to be paid when the goods are cleared through customs. Payments for imports may not be made by a correspondent bank abroad until the Indonesian authorized bank has received documents evidencing the shipment to Indonesia of the merchandise as described in the related letter of credit or the import license. Import Approval Certificates (SPI), with a validity period of six months, are issued to registered importers or exporters intending to import goods with their own foreign exchange. These certificates may be used only to import goods in Categories I, II, and III. However, when at least 90 per cent of the SPI has been utilized, the Bank Indonesia may at the request of the importer issue a new SPI for a value not exceeding 10 per cent of the original certificate; the new SPI may be used to import Category IV goods. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles are made at the rate of Rp 262 per US$1, which includes the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee; private payments for invisibles are made at the rate of Rp 1,612 per US$1, including the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee. Payments for invisibles require either a general or a special license from the Foreign Exchange Institute. General licenses are issued to the authorized banks to make payments for specified invisibles (e.g., those related to trade) without fu r ther authorization from the Foreign Exchange Institute. Special licenses are required for payments in excess of the limits established in the general licenses and for payments not covered by the general licenses (e.g., for advertising fees, film rentals, royalties, registration fees for patents and trademarks, subscriptions to news- papers and periodicals, memberships in associations, charitable remittances, legacies, and contractual amortization expenses). For- eign exchange is not made available to pay insurance premiums on imports, except those on some government imports for which a special permit is granted by the Committee for Insurance of the Government's Imported Goods. Under a special license, foreign nationals employed in Indonesia are allowed to remit 20 per cent of their gross taxable income for 261 INDONESIA such purposes as fam i ly allowances, children's education, and savings. In addition to this 20 per cent limit, up to the equivalent of US$3,158 is allowed to each remitter in independent professions and up to US$4,210 to each employed person. A general license permits non- residents to remit f rom their Income Accounts up to Rp 210,000 annua l ly, converted at the rate of Rp 1,612 per US$1, including the 5 per cent LAAPLN fee (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The export of Indonesian and fore ign banknotes and coins is pro- hibited, but residents going abroad are provided with small amounts of fore ign banknotes to meet their traveling expenses. Exports find Exports Proceeds All exports require licenses, and all exporters (except those oil companies to wh ich special arrangements apply) are required to surrender their export proceeds to an authorized bank in Indonesia. Exports of low-grade rubber, corn, soybeans ,'tapioca, cassava, sago, sweet potatoes, and bran are prohibited. Exporters receive a trans- ferab le Production-Inducement Certificate (SPP), which entitles them to a foreign exchange allocation equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports, while exporters in the "former counterbarter area" (see footnote 2) receive an additional allocation of 10 per cent of export proceeds. Moreover, producer-exporters receive an extra non- transferable foreign exchange allocation equal to. 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports, which may be used to import certain items for their own use. All exports, irrespective of the country of destination, must be financed by irrevocable bank letters of credit, and the drafts drawn thereon must be sight draf ts. Exports cannot be invoiced in rupiahs, but must be invoiced in currencies acceptable to the Bureau for Exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled; the effective exchange rate is Rp 520 per US$1. Foreign nationals resident in Indonesia may retain all income not resulting from foreign trade. The import of Indonesian banknotes and coins is prohibited. Foreign banknotes may be imported on condition that they are surrendered to an authorized exchange bank. However, visitors planning to stay in Indonesia no longer than 90 days may, af ter a record has been made, retain their foreign currency and take it 262 INDONESIA with them on departure or sell it to an authorized bank at the prevailing buying rate applicable to invisibles. Authorized banks must restrict their purchases of certain currencies to specified denomi- nations, and no dealings in Malayan dollars are permitted. Capital There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia by non- residents of capital in the f o rm of foreign exchange, provided that the exchange is supplied in a currency wh ich is subject to the surrender requirement. All incoming and outgoing capital transfers are made at the exchange rates applicable to invisibles. Outward transfers are subject to the LAAPLN fee of 5 per cent. The licensing policy for capital transfers is determined on the basis of the foreign exchange budget for the year. This means that capital transfers by those who are, according to the regulations, entitled to make them are sometimes temporarily suspended. For determining the treatment to be given to capital transfers, the regulations classify, in three groups, companies operating in Indonesia with foreign capital. Group I,A also known as "old, active companies," includes investments before January 1, 1954 in companies operating in Indonesia but which are registered abroad, as well as investments in companies that are registered in Indonesia but are owned by one or a few foreigners residing abroad. This group is divided into three categories: Category 1 Category 2 a. Estates a. Transport and e. Banks b. Mining communications f. Development c. Industry b. Energy g. Foreign trade c. Other industries h. Domestic trade d. Printing Category 3 a. Insurance and administration b. Hotels c. Enterprises in the cultural field Twenty per cent of net profits (a f ter payment of the corporation tax) on investments in this group must be deposited in rupiah accounts as reserve profits, and the remaining 80 per cent may be used as fo l lows: For the companies in Category 1, all of it may be transferred abroad; for those in Category 2, 60 per cent may be transferred abroad and the remaining 20 per cent retained for private use In Indonesia. Companies in Category 3 are not permitted to transfer any of the 80 per cen t; these reserve profits may be used for such purposes as the purchase of Treasury notes and bills, new invest- ments in the companies concerned, or investments in certain Indone- sian enterprises, subject to the approval of the Bank Indonesia. 263 INDONESIA Amortization allowances and proceeds from liquidation of invest- ments in Group I are placed in Capital Accounts, transfers from which have been suspended since January 1,1954. Group II, known as "new investment companies," comprises companies in Indonesia in which foreign capital has been invested since January 1, 1954. These investments are subject to conditions agreed between the Indonesian authorities and the interested parties. In general, companies in this group benefit from more favorable treatment than that accorded companies in Group I. Most companies in Group II are exempt from the reserve profits requirements applied to Group I; and, as a minimum, they are entitled to the same treat- ment accorded to companies in Group I. Group III includes companies in Categories 1 and 2 of Group I but which are not entitled to transfer profits because they are registered in Indonesia or are not owned by one or a few foreigners residing abroad. This group is allowed to transfer dividends in respect of shares held abroad. If no direct transfer of dividends is granted, the proceeds of dividend coupons may be credited to nonresident Income Accounts of the foreign owners, balances on which are transferable up to an annual maximum amount. For foreign capital invested under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law of September 16, 1958, profits may be transferred entirely and capital repatriation may be allowed in the currency of the original investment, after the business has been in operation for a specified period of time to be decided by the Council for Foreign Capital Investment. Residents are required to surrender exchange from capital, and approval is not normally granted to them for capital payments abroad. Residents may trade in the Djakarta market in registered foreign securities, including registered bonds and shares, obligations, bank mortgages, profit-sharing certificates, and similar securities, coupons, and dividend warrants. Residents may also trade in unregistered securities, provided that a nonresident does not benefit thereby, directly or indirectly. Nonresidents are permitted to trade in specified domestic securities, provided that the proceeds of any sale are credited to a nonresident Capital Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above). The import of foreign securities into Indonesia requires a license, the issue of which is subject to a special import levy of 33% per cent of the current domestic market value of the security. The proceeds of this levy are payable to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Imported securities representing the reinvestment of securities exported from Indonesia are exempt from this levy. 264 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1964) (rupiahs per UJ$. dollar) INDONESIA Buying 520 (Rp 260 plus 20<?o of Rp All invisibles and capital. Transactions with oil companies. 1,350)a 1,575 (Rp 260 plus 20% of Rp 6,625)* All exports other than those from the "former counterbarter trade area." 2,237 (Rp 260 plus 30% of Rp All exports from the "former counter- barter trade area." 6.6528)4 Selling 250 (Transaction Rate) Most Category I imports for which the Government allocates foreign exchange. 262 (Rp 260 plus We LAAPLN fee) Government payments for invisibles. 1,50) 1,600 (Rp 260 plus Levy of Rp Other Category I imports for which the Government allocates exchange. 1,612 (Rp 260 plus Levy of Rp 1&50 plus 6% LAAPLN fee) Nongovernment payments for invisi- bles, all capital, and those Category II and III imports for which the Govern- ment allocates foreign exchange. 3,612 (Rp 250 plus Rp 3£50 6 plus 6% LAAPLN fee) Imports with "special" SPP obtained f rom Bank Indonesia. 6,875 (Rp 260 plus Rp 6,625Y Some Category I imports with SPP obtained in free market. 6,887 (Rp 250 plus Rp 6,625* plus 6% LAAPLN fee) Other imports with SPP obtained in free market. Changes during 1964 January 13. Exporters obtaining for their exports a price higher than that established as the official export price were allowed to retain the difference in foreign exchange and to use the retained exchange freely for any purpose. 8 Initial SPP rate. 4 Prevailing SPP rate in the free market. 6 Prevailing Bank Indonesia selling rate of special SPP. 265 INDONESIA April 17. A new exchange rate system was introduced. The basic rate was changed f rom Rp 315 to Rp 250 per US$1, officially called the transaction rate. This rate was made the basis for calculating the effective rates for all payments and receipts. The previously existing exchange taxes were eliminated and a Production-Inducement Certificate (SPP) was introduced. The SPP system yielded to exporters an automatic foreign exchange allocation amounting to 20 per cent of exchange receipts, with exporters in certain areas receiving an additional exchange allocation of 10 per cent (SPP-Tambahan). The SPP's would be freely transferable. Imports were reclassified in five categories. Holders of SPP's might freely import most goods in Cate- gories I, II, and III. SPP's were initially traded at Rp 1,350 per US$1. In addition, an exchange (LAAPLN) fee of 5 per cent of the basic rate of Rp 250 per US$1 was imposed on payments for most imports and all invisibles. May 18. The payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. July 1. The currency system, foreign exchange regulations, and trade controls applicable to the Riau Archipelago were abolished. The Archipelago became subject to the regulations applicable else- where in Indonesia, except for the special regulations with respect to West Irian. July 3. Exports of low-grade rubber were prohibited. August 10. The Government stood ready to issue Import Approval Certificates (SP I ), with a validity of six months, to registered importers or exporters intending to import goods with their own foreign exchange. Before an import with an SPI could be authorized, the importer must deposit with a correspondent abroad of the Bank Indonesia a "contribution" in fore ign exchange equivalent to 1 per cent of the value of the imports. October 31. A levy of Rp 1,350 per US$1 was introduced on all payments for imports effected with government-allocated foreign exchange other than those for specified essential commodities. December 28. The Foreign Exchange Law of 1964 (Law No. 32 of 1964) replaced the Foreign Exchange Law of 1940. Foreign exchange originating in the national resources and undertakings of Indonesia would be controlled by the State. Foreign exchange that must be surrendered would constitute the Foreign Exchange Fund, which took over all assets and liabilities of the old Foreign Exchange Fund and would be administered by the Bank Indonesia. The authority for building up the Foreign Exchange Fund and controlling other foreign exchange in accordance with an exchange budget was 266 INDONESIA entrusted to a Foreign Exchange Council. The performance of the daily operations of the Council was delegated to the Bureau for Foreign Exchange Transactions, which would be under the super- vision of the Minister of Central Bank Affairs (the Governor of the Bank Indonesia) and wh ich would replace the Foreign Exchange Institute. Exports must be paid for in fore ign exchange at the price (delivery price) and on the conditions prescribed and published by the Managing Board of the Bureau for Foreign Exchange Trans- actions; exchange proceeds corresponding to the delivery price must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Exporters must conclude a foreign exchange contract with an authorized bank and surrender their claim to the bank for collection. The rupiah equivalent of foreign exchange surrendered to authorized banks or sold by authorized banks to the Bank Indonesia would be determined by Government Order. Imports payable with exchange f rom the Foreign Exchange Fund required a general or special license issued by the Bureau for Foreign Exchange Transactions. When services were rendered to nonresidents, the Bureau for Foreign Exchange Transactions would determine whether payment must be required in currency to be surrendered in fu ll or in part to the Foreign Exchange Fund. All matters pertaining to the use, pledging, or transfer of rights to foreign exchange exempt f rom surrender to the Foreign Exchange Fund would be regulated by Government Order in accord- ance with a plan for the use of foreign exchange. Except when licensed by the Bureau for Foreign Exchange Transactions, the import and export of domestic currency and the export of gold, foreign banknotes, and securities denominated in rupiah were pro- hibited. An explanatory statement noted that the distinction between resident and nonresident Indonesian nationals was being abolished; that exchange receipts by individuals f rom personal services need not be supervised; that, in addition to the foreign exchange that would go into the Foreign Exchange Fund, there was also foreign exchange owned by the Indonesian community (both Indonesians and for- eigners), which should not be surrendered direct to the Foreign Exchange Fund; that many prohibitions had to be abandoned; and that consequently many acts were intentionally not prohibited or exempt f rom licensing (e.g., owning gold or foreign exchange or having accounts with foreign banks). The provisions of the Law would be without prejudice to the provisions referred to in the working agreements between state oil companies and foreign oil companies. Various kinds of foreign currency that were not used for international 267 INDONESIA payments (including coins other than gold coins) would not be considered foreign exchange. Imports financed with funds f rom the Foreign Exchange Fund would be regulated by an import plan within the framework of a foreign exchange budget. The delivery price for exports was designed to let the exporter know how much foreign currency he must surrender to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Implementing regulations were issued in January and February 1965. December 31. Law No. 36 of 1964 introduced a special levy of 5 per cent on most imports and on certain payments for invisibles; the levy was calculated at the rate of Rp 250 per US$1. The levy would not be applicable to West Irian or areas outside the exchange control area, such as Sabang. The proceeds were intended for the construction of the Trans-Sumatran Highway. 268 IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Iranian Rials 75.75 = US$1. The official rates are Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies quoted by the central bank * are based on these buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into con- sideration the exchange rates of the quoted currencies in the inter- national exchange markets. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the authorized banks with due regard to the rates against the U.S. dollar currently quoted in the international exchange markets. The following charges are levied by the authorized banks on the amount of exchange sold for imports: % of 1 per cent for sanitary services, and %0 of 1 per cent of the invoice amount for the Export Promotion Fund. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central bank ). All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The Ministry of Economy determines the classification of imported and exported commodities. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the five countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts free ly, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only for payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 269 IRAN Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Central Gov- ernment. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "author- ized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, as well as goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given. Specified commodities, such as tobacco and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly, although special permits to import these commodities may be issued to private importers by the Ministry of Finance. Gold may be imported only by the central bank. Payments for imports may be made either against bills for collec- tion or documen tary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authorization for goods listed in the Schedule attached to C ircu lar No. 122 of September 22, 1962 (Iran ian date 31.6.1341), for goods (mainly capital goods) listed in Schedule 1, as well as for goods listed in Schedule 2 attached to Circular No. 110 of May 1, 1962 (Iranian date 10.2.1341) and consigned to domestic manufac turers. Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission f rom the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. Orders for imports for wh ich payment is to be made against documentary letters of credit must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran prior to opening the letter of credit. Foreign exchange obtained from the sale of exports to countries whose currencies are not quoted by the central bank may be utilized by the exporters concerned or by others to import authorized goods 3 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral import/export list from countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 270 IRAN from these or other countries. Also, foreign exchange obtained by residents from persons abroad, other than from the sale of exports, may be used to import authorized goods. However, transactions of this nature do not exempt importers from paying the %0 of 1 per cent tax on imports and the d ifference between the buying and selling rates of foreign exchange. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Advance deposits apply to all imports for which payments are made against documentary letters of credit. The deposit must be made by the importer in rials at the Bank Markazi Iran when he registers his order with the Bank and submits his application for the opening of a letter of credit. The rates of deposit are currently Rls 11.50, Rls 30.60, and Rls 76.50 per U.S. dollar (depending on the essentiality of the goods). Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profits taxes, in addition to ta r i f f s, which are either specific or ad valorem. The ad valorem commercial profits tax ranges from 1 per cent to 225 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial profits taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. All taxes are paid to the customs before the customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents approved by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to mer- chants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Payments for noncommercial invisibles require licenses f rom the central bank. Nonresidents working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been approved by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals— which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel in Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 271 IRAN for other countries —may be sold by authorized banks upon presenta- tion of the traveler's visaed passport. For children under 12 years of age accompanied by Iranian adults the allowances are 30 per cent of the above amounts. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert into other currencies for traveling expenses up to the equivalent of US$50 upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities, including grain and flour, require licenses. A commercial profits tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profits tax charged at the time of import on materials contained in goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsidies, the Ministry of Economy pays the exporter 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of iron ore, manganese ore, and washed sultanas; 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value of pickled skins (salambore), unwashed sultanas, and chromite ore; and 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of lead ore. However, the actual rates paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy are 90 per cent of the percentages mentioned for ores and 75 per cent of those indicated for sultanas and pickled skins; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to promote exports. The exporter must surrender the foreign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1). Export proceeds in other currencies may be used to purchase imports from the same or other countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered unless used to import authorized goods. The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Upon arrival in Iran, travelers of Iranian nationality must either sell their foreign exchange to an authorized 272 IRAN bank or deposit it in a temporary foreign exchange account, from which transfers abroad or to nonresident accounts require licenses from the central bank. Other travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Transfers of capital abroad require the approval of the central bank. Except as noted be lowj such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the law concerning the encouragement and protection of foreign capital investment in Iran (1955) and regula- tions implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved devel- opment or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investments. Changes during 1964 February 18. The bilateral payments agreement with Ceylon was terminated. March 11. A new trade agreement with India provided that imports from that country of goods not on the bilateral import/export list no longer required special approval by the Iranian Ministry of Economy. March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iranian year 1343 (March 21, 1964-March 20, 1965) were published by the Ministry of Economy. The import/export policy of Iran remained substantially the same as in the previous year, with some liberalization and reduction in discrimination in import policy. Goods previously admitted only from countries with which Iran maintained bilateral 273 IRAN agreements could be imported from any country. Imports of 30 tariff items previously classified as "unauthorized" were shifted to the "authorized" list. The commercial profits tax on 67 tariff items was reduced, and that on 39 tariff items was increased. May 12. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Rumania. June 17. The special tax of 5 per cent levied on most imports from Japan was abolished, as was the subsidy of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value paid on all exports to Japan. June 20. A new bilateral payments agreement was signed with the U.S.S.R.; the agreement accounts would be kept in U.S. dollars instead of in rials. September 22. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was terminated. September 22. All orders for imports for which payment must be made against documentary letters of credit had to be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran prior to opening the letter of credit. September 22. The rates of advance deposit required when docu- mentary letters of credit are opened were expressed in rials per U.S. dollar (Rls 11.50, Rls 30.60, and Rls 76.50 per US$1) instead of in percentages of the invoice value (15, 40, and 100 per c en t ); the new rates were applicable also to imports received under foreign aid. The deposits henceforward had to be lodged with the central bank instead of the commercial banks. September 23. Certain export subsidy rates were changed. November 24. A tax of Rls 10,000 was imposed for each single- voyage exit permit to Iranian nationals leaving the country. 274 IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi Dinar 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currencies l or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its trans- actions with authorized dealers. The official rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 were US$2.790625 buying, and US$2.782 selling, per ID 1. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The rate of duty is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 (with the exception of certain exempted amounts; see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 (with the same exemptions) granted during any calendar year. There is a small free market (mainly in banknotes) in Iranian rials and Saudi Arabian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the Directorate of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the licensing authority for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,1 or, under bilateral payments agreements,2 in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. xThe listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Iraq has bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. There is an inactive payments agreement with Lebanon. 275 IRAQ Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions permitted in convertible currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Hong Kong, Israel, and Turkey, and imports of 66 items from all other countries are prohibited. Imports of drugs, Pharmaceuticals, insecticides, fertilizers, baby food and similar prod- ucts, motor vehicles and spare parts, sugar, and tea are a govern- ment monopoly. All other imports are subject to individual licensing and quotas. Imports are subject to an over-all ceiling, to commodity group ceilings, and to individual importer's ceilings. Quotas for cer- tain goods (accounting for about 30 per cent of the value of import licenses granted in 1960) are subject to the decision of the Minister of Economy; they represent items the licensing of which is more restrictive than that of other items. Import allocations for the remain- ing items are subject to the decision of the Directorate-General of Imports and Exports. Import licenses are valid for imports from all countries except Hong Kong, Israel, and Turkey. Only licensed importers and contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Government may import; they are divided into groups according to the category of imports in which they specialize. New importers who meet the requirements may also be granted import privileges. The licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in certain cases where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to re fer to the exchange qontrol authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 300 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 150 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and of ID 50 for children 5 years of age or younger, 276 IRAQ subject to a limit of ID 600 for each passport covering more than one person. Iraqi nationals traveling to Iran, to the countries of the Arabian Gu l f, or on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are allowed half of these amounts. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allow- ances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out £ stg. 150 in sterling notes or the equivalent in Saudi Arabian riyals. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500, with the following exemptions: ID 150 for persons 18 years of age or over, ID 75 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfillment of certain formalities. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovernment, and public utility departments, certain persons traveling for study purposes, foreigners except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Kuwait are free of restriction. All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, and Turkey, and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. Specified exports (e.g., certain kinds of livestock, certain foodstuffs in short supply, cereals and fruits, and raw materials in short supply) may be prohibited, and some of these (e.g., wheat and certain fruits) may be exported only if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricultural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange pro- ceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds f rom exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf (excluding Iran) are exempt from these requirements. 277 IRAQ Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Pilgrims returning f rom Saudi Arabia may bring in ID 150, and other travelers ID 5, in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it w i th a licensed dea ler; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the off ic ial rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Foreign companies setting up as importers into Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One ha lf of the profits of foreign service companies (companies rendering services only) is transferable. The transfer of profits from foreign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for commercial, banking, and insurance companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting f rom reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferab le percentages. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. Imports of capital f rom Israel are prohibited. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Under the Industrial Development Law (No.31 of 1961), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption from income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by mach ine; (2) the number of non- Iraqi workers and employees (excluding Palestinian Arabs) does not exceed 10 per cent of the total staff employed, excluding essential technicians; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power-generating plant, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non- Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanufactured products into finished products, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms (except banks )3 must have a 3 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. 278 IRAQ majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Changes during 1964 January 27. Import duties were raised on many commodities con- sidered nonessential. February 10. New trade and payments arrangements were agreed with the United Arab Republic; the payments agreement of Octo- ber 11, 1958 was replaced by a new one providing for the use of a clearing account in sterling at the Central Bank of Iraq. June 17. A. most-favored-nation treaty was signed with Japan. The discriminatory treatment of imports from Japan was terminated. July 5. The amount of Iraqi currency notes that travelers may bring in or take out was reduced from ID 15 to ID 5. July 5. The basic exchange allowances for travel were doubled; the new allowance for persons 18 years of age or over was ID 300 a calendar year. July 5. Iraqi travelers were required, before leaving the country, to deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted for travel purposes. July 5. Exchange taxes of 8 per cent and 12 per cent were imposed on foreign exchange granted to persons leaving Iraq or residing abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners. July 14. Imports of the following goods could only be made by the Government or by government agencies: drugs and pharmaceuti- cals, insecticides, fertilizers, baby food and similar products, motor vehicles of all descriptions, and spare parts for motor vehicles. July 27. One half of the profits of foreign service companies was declared transferable. The transfer of profits from other foreign investments in Iraq was limited to 20 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for industrial investments and 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for commercial, banking, and insurance investments. August 28. Imports of tea could only be made by the Government Purchasing Board. December 20. The bilateral payments arrangement with Tunisia was terminated. 279 IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Irish Pound 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Department of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to com- mercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-sterling currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any specified currency.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Blocked Accounts (see below), are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-sterling currency sold by a non- resident to an authorized bank. Balances on these accounts may be xThe specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 280 IRELAND transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents, or converted into any non- sterling currency. Blocked Accounts are -credited with funds that are due to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Green- land, Norway, and Sweden, and are not eligible for transfer. These funds arise from such sources as the sale of Irish securities, proceeds f rom sales of real estate exceeding £1,000, and the Irish estates of persons who at the time of death were resident outside the Sterling Area. Funds in these accounts may be invested through the stock exchange in Irish or sterling securities which cannot be redeemed within five years from the date of investment. They may also be used for expenses of the account holder and his family during visits to Ireland and for the upkeep of the account holder's property in Ireland. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred freely to other Blocked Accounts in Ireland or in the United Kingdom. Imports and Import Payments The import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of adminis- trative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective purposes, imports of certain commodities are subject to quota restrictions which, with minor exceptions, are on a global basis. Individual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission of the Department of Finance is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automati- cally. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Department of Finance. 281 IRELAND For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area there is a basic allowance of £250 for each person for each journey. For business travel, up to £2,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than £50 in Sterling Area notes or £250 in other currency notes may be taken out of the country to a destination outside the United Kingdom. There is no restriction on the amount of bank- notes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in specified cur- rencies, the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if specified currencies are received they must be sold to an authorized bank. Any foreign exchange held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for nine months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for aM transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications by emigrants are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a fam i ly; those from other persons are considered on their merits. Incoming capital received in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. The proceeds of sale of non-Sterling Area securities sold outside the Sterling Area, and certain other capital receipts from outside the Area, may be invested in non- Sterling Area securities, provided that the investment is carried out within six months f rom the date of receipt through a bank, a stock- broker, or a solicitor. Such funds may also be used, subject to individual permission, to purchase for personal use real estate outside the Sterling Area. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. 282 IRELAND Changes during 1964 January 1. Most import quotas were increased by 10 per cent. July 6. Residents could, subject to individual authorization, purchase real estate outside the Sterling Area for personal use with exchange eligible for investment in foreign currency securities. Previously, such transactions could only be made on a matching basis, i.e., with funds obtained from the sale of real estate located outside the Sterling Area. 283 ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is Israel Pounds 3.00 = US$1. All exchange trans- actions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which payments agreements are in force x are usually made in U.S. dollars or sterling as accounting units. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account free ly; when in Israel, he may convert funds held on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts— for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for former residents —may be established only with special approval. Aviation, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to requirements; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securi- ties, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£100 a day for the account holder and for each member of his family, for remittances of up to I£2,500 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the payment of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former 1 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. There also is an inoperative payments agreement with Cuba. 284 ISRAEL investments which are not eligible for transfer at the official rate, funds left behind in Israel by tourists, and proceeds from the sale of Israel bonds in Israel. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts which may be withdrawn. Imports and Import Payments Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about two thirds of total imports) must be approved as importers by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List (about one fourth of total imports), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. An import license may prescribe whether, if payment is to be made by documentary credit, the full amount of foreign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the credit; in such cases, funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. With the exception of govern- ment agencies and persons importing for export, importers utilizing credit facilities must, at the time of opening the credit, deposit 50 per cent of the cost of the goods. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on consignment provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods with the Accountant General through an authorized bank. An importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$30, which is obtainable on demand, for the purchase of books, membership dues, 285 ISRAEL etc., and US$50 for certain other purposes (e.g., registration in a university). For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$500 a traveler for each journey. Not more than I£100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£900. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. For some commodities, how- ever, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. One third of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts (see section on Capital, below). For ten years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than LB100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and pthers visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of LE100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their fam i l ies; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds 286 ISRAEL f rom Invisibles, above ). Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Invest- ments of August 16, 1959, which permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be w i thdrawn in five equal annual installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn immediately. Foreign investments made in Israel without taking advantage of the 1959 law do not benefit from these transfer privileges, but most old investments have in fact been recognized as "approved" investments. Interest and dividends on bonds or shares registered on the stock exchange which have been purchased by nonresidents with exchange converted at the official rate may be transferred abroad in foreign currency at the official rate; this applies also to amounts received through sales of such shares. Payments due to nonresidents and not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered Accounts or Blocked Accounts. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. New immigrants may, for ten years f rom the date on which they first entered, retain their foreign assets and use them freely. Trans- fers abroad of a capital nature by residents are generally not permitted. Holders of TAMAM accounts may use them to purchase abroad, for themselves or their families, foreign securities quoted on an official stock exchange and, subject to submission of evidence to the authorized bank maintaining the account, for legal costs in respect of restitution payments and for travel expenses abroad exceeding the basic travel exchange allocation of US$500. Foreign securities purchased by debiting a TAMAM account may be sold abroad for foreign currency and the proceeds again credited to a TAMAM account, or the securities may be sold to other residents against payment in Israel pounds. Changes during 1964 During the year on various dates about 60 items were transferred to the Free Import Orders. March 4- The limits as to amount hitherto imposed on the use of Blocked Account funds were eliminated. 287 ITALY1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Italian Lire 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other currencies 2 vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar main- tained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino and the Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries may be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign 1 In view of the changes that took place on January 4, 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. They are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies. 288 ITALY Accounts, for current transactions and Italian investments abroad, and Capital Accounts, for foreign investments in Italy. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Ac- counts under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital pay- ments, with payments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, and for payments due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, f rom Special Accounts under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see below). They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates, and for the pur- chase of investments. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts and with the proceeds of sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account under Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports from countries other than Japan and the Sino-Soviet area are free of quantitative restriction. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported from these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import), which includes goods listed under some 55 tariff headings or their parts— of these 20 relate to agricultural products and foodstuffs. However, 289 ITALY the general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Somalia, the United Arab Republic, and Yugo- slavia only if the goods originate in and are shipped directly from the respective coun try; in addition, in respect of imports from the United A rab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. A more extensive list (Tabella B Import) contains those com- modities which require an individual license when imported from the Sino-Soviet area. The list includes 110 tariff items or subitems related to agricultural products and foods tu f fs, and about 840 tariff items or subitems related to other goods. Special lists contain those commodi- ties on the Tabella B Import which may be imported freely from some of the countries3 to which the Tabella B Import applies, provided that the goods originate in and are shipped from one of these countries. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods (listed under 156 tariff items or their parts) that are subject to individual import licensing when imported f rom that country. A special list contains those commodities (at present comprising 74 tariff items or subitems) for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods from Japan may be imported freely, provided that they originate in that country, irrespective of provenance. For imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control fo rm is requ i red; for imports from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in value, a fo rm completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 500,000 in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account. Inter- national postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authoriza- tion, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted, although for certain transactions 4 there are limits beyond wh ich the banks may 3 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. * I.e., brokerage on merchandise and remittances for medical expenses and family maintenance and for subventions. 290 ITALY make payments only af ter examination of the supporting documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Exchange is granted freely for remit- tances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each country. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries5 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering of ships (excluding charters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same p ay e e ); purchase of publication rights, information agencies, etc. ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per contract); copyrights ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per con t rac t ); services of professional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films and advertising shorts; utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; civil liability insurance; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of operation; brokerage for merchandise transactions, whenever the settlement is made after the end of the year following that in which the export or import took p l a c e ;6 and other transactions not permitted by general authorization. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 for each trip for tourism, business, and education; banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Any person traveling abroad may take with him Lit 50,000 in Italian banknotes, and if he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, he may take an additional Lit 500,000 in Italian banknotes. 6 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering of ships) Yugoslavia. 6 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. 291 ITALY Exports and Export Proceeds A few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control fo rm is required; for exports f rom Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 500,000 in value, an export document com- pleted by an authorized bank is required. Exchange receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within seven days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies -to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest off ic ial exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts f rom exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and fowa rd ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 100,000 in foreign banknotes and coins left over f rom trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign bank- notes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any kind f rom nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respec- tively, except, with regard to EEC countries, long-term loans for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic ties, for wh ich no authorization of any kind is required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely, provided that it is in accordance with the repayment schedule authorized by the above-named ministries when the loan was approved. 292 ITALY Direct investment in EEC countries is permitted in any form and without any limit. Direct investment in other countries must be in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment and may not exceed the limit of the paid-up capital of that firm; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation of previous investments ( a f t er crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy -and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or pay- able abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. Transfers in connection with inheritances and dowries may be made freely. Donations up to the equivalent of Lit 10 million for each beneficiary who is related to the donor are permitted; in other cases, prior authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. The transfer of property of permanent emigrants is allowed in two steps: up to the equivalent of Lit 4 million a person upon presentation of specified documents at the time of leaving Italy (plus Lit 50,000 in Italian banknotes), and the remainder when residence has been established abroad. If the transfer is to the EEC area, the documentation for the transfer of a higher initial sum is examined by the Italian Exchange Office. The granting of commercial credits or credits for the performance of services is permitted freely for a maximum period of up to 360 days fo l low ing the export of commodities or the rendering of the services. If the period exceeds 360 days, approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required, except for credits granted to residents of other EEC countries for between 360 days and up to 5 years, for which the approval of the Italian Exchange Office is required. The con- tracting of commercial credits, as well as credits connected with the performance of services, is permitted freely for a maximum period of 90 days preceding or following the date of importation or the rendering of the services. The contracting of such credits which precede the date of importation or the rendering of the service by between 90 days and 180 days requires the authorization of the Italian Exchange Office, while the contracting of credits which precede the date of importation or the rendering of the service by more than 293 ITALY 180 days requires the authorization of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. For the contracting of credits for a period of between 90 days and 360 days following the importation or the rendering of the service prior examination by the Italian Exchange Office is required. The contracting of credits for periods exceeding 360 days following the importation of the goods or the rendering of the service requires authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, except for credits contracted for imports or services from EEC countries for between 90 days and 5 years, for which the approval of the Italian Exchange Office is required. Loans and credits not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be authorized by the Italian Exchange Office, provided that they are granted to or by residents of EEC countries and provided that the duration of such loans or credits does not exceed 5 years and that the amount is not more than Lit 50 million. The export of securities is not permitted, except of those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European cur- rencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or Capital Account. Changes during 1964 January 31. A new Tabella B Import replaced the former Tabella C Import, which contained those commodities requiring an individual license when imported f rom Sino-Soviet bloc countries. The number of items subject to this requirement was reduced. April 22. Payment for imports of automobiles and other specified consumer durable goods had to be made within 30 days preceding or following the importation of such merchand ise; previously, pay- ment could be made within 360 days preceding or fo l low ing such imports. The granting of credits connected with commercial trans- actions, or with the performance of services, to residents of other EEC countries for a period exceeding 360 days, as well as the grant- ing and contracting of all credits not connected with commercial transactions to or from residents of other EEC countries, required the approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Previously, commercial credits to other EEC countries could be granted freely for a period of up to 5 years, while credits not connected with commercial transactions could be granted and contracted provided that the duration and the amount of the loan did not exceed 5 years and Lit 50 million, respectively, and provided, for a loan to a resident by a nonresident, 294 that the interest rate on such a loan did not exceed 6 per cent per annum. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Somalia expired. ITALY NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1965: January 4- Payments for all imports of goods and services could be made within 90 days preceding or following arrival of the goods or the performance of the service; previously, payments for specified consumer durable goods, had to be made within 30 days preceding or following arrival of the goods. The time limit on import credits taken up abroad by Italian residents was extended to 90 days pre- ceding or fo l low ing the date of importation. Furthermore, requests for the authorization of credits preceding the date of importation by between 90 days and 180 days could now be submitted to the Italian Exchange Office for authorization, while requests for authorization of credits preceding the date of importation by more than 180 days could be submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Prior examina- tion of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office was required if credits were to be taken up for a period of between 90 days and 360 days following the importation of the goods. Requests for the authorization of credits for a period exceeding 360 days following the importation of goods could be submitted to the Ministry of Trade for approval, except for credits taken up for imports from EEC countries for a period of between 90 days and 5 years following the importation of goods, for which the approval of the Italian Exchange Office was required. 295 IVORY COAST Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange and Credit of the Ministry of Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Planning. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by author- ized banks under the direction of the Department of Foreign Exchange and Credit. Global annual programs for imports from countries out- side the French Franc Area are coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affa irs, and Planning. Import licenses ( for imports subject to quotas) are issued by the Foreign Trade Department, af ter checking and approval of the terms of payment by the Department of Foreign Exchange and Credit (Office of Exchange Operations). Import certificates ( f or imports not subject to quota restrictions) are approved by the Department of Foreign Exchange and Credit (Office of Exchange Operations). Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through For- eign Accounts in Convertible Francs. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 296 IVORY COAST Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts and INR Accounts. Foreign Accounts apply to residents of countries outside the French Franc Area or to residents of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for more than two years. INR Accounts (interieurs de non-residents) apply to residents of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for less than two years and to residents of countries outside the Area who have lived within the Area for less than two years. Foreign Accounts are fu l ly convertible; INR Accounts are not transferable (except between two INR Accounts), but any balance may be transferred when the holder leaves the country. imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports f rom countries outside the Area may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annually by the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports from EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed traders and, in exceptional cases, to industrial and agricul- tural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, contained in a liberalized list, may be imported freely from countries outside the French Franc Area. Private persons cannot obtain import licenses, except for trans- actions not requiring foreign exchange. For certain goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license or certificate of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to countries outside that Area are subject to certain restrictions and require the approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange and Credit. Payments for invisibles related to trade transactions are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for transportation costs may be made freely; for payments abroad for insurance, the approval of the Director of Insurance is required. The exchange allowances are as follows: for 297 IVORY COAST tourism, up to the equivalent of CFAF 125,000 a year; for business travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 for each trip; for fam i ly support, up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each beneficiary. In all cases, supplementary allowances may be given, provided that the applicant presents reasonable justification. Income accruing to nonresidents from profits, dividends, rents, fees, royalties, etc., may be remitted abroad, subject to verification. Non- resident workers in Ivory Coast may remit abroad, monthly, 50 per cent of their salaries. Payments in respect of many other categories of invisibles are also subject to verification. Travelers to Dahomey, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses, mainly to ensure repatriation of the proceeds. For certain export commodities subject to international quotas, the export license must be accompanied by an authorization issued by the organization responsible for the manage- ment of the quota. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area must be surrendered in their entirety within three months from the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts in respect of services, interest, and income due from residents of other countries must be collected and must be surrendered within three months of receipt. Travelers may bring in without limit CFA or other banknotes and coins (excluding gold coins), with the exception of Guinean and Malian currencies. Imported foreign banknotes must be declared 298 IVORY COAST to the customs authorities and must be surrendered to an authorized bank within one month. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between Ivory Coast and all other countries are subject to authorization. Foreign investment in Ivory Coast is subject to the prior approval of the Office of the Director of Foreign Exchange and Credit; approval depends on the nature and purpose of the proposed invest- ment, a liberal policy being fo l lowed in this respect. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to Ivory Coast, was terminated. February 1. Imports of j u ke boxes and all other coin-operated amusement apparatus were prohibited. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to Ivory Coast, was terminated. June 4- Regulations were announced governing the import and export of gold, gold ore, and objects made of gold. 299 JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Jama ican Pound 1 = US$2.80. The currency is f ree ly conver t ib le into sterling at parity, subject to bank ing com- missions. Exchange rates for other currenc ies are based on the buying and se l l ing rates in the London market. The Bank of Jama ica is author- ized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward t rans fe rs; at present, these charges are %Q of 1 per cent on inwa rd t rans fe rs and % of 1 per cent on outward trans- fers. Jama ica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f r om February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jama ica administers exchange control on behalf of the M in is try of F inance, sub ject to certain limitations in respect of wh ich the approval of the Ministry is required. The commercial banks are designated as au thor ized dealers and have au thor i ty to release foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allowances, and certain other pay- ments. Imports are regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jama ica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settlements w i th other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jama ican pounds to an External Account or in any fore ign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Accoun t, or in any specified currency ,1 or in any other fore ign currency that is f ree ly exchangeable for sterling. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jama ican pounds for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. xThe specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 300 JAMAICA The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale of sterling and Jamaican pound securities or other capital proceeds) are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. Permission may be given for these funds to be transferred to London, where their disposal is subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities. Blocked funds may be rein- vested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisi- t ion; the income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are normally available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license. Other imports, i.e., those included in a special schedule and all imports originating in the Sino-Soviet bloc, South A f r ica, or Cuba, require individual import licenses. The special schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., footwear and detergents ( f or these items vouch- ers are issued to importers on the basis of which licenses are granted by the Trade Adm in is tra tor); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., canned milk, cement, and cheap clothing; and (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports f rom other coun- tries may be made by crediting an External Account or by purchasing foreign exchange from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents documentary evidence of importation and a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value. 301 JAMAICA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Sterling Area may be made f ree ly in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originat- ing outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Approval is granted f ree ly for payment for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For payments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance prem iums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange alloca- tion of £J 250 for each jou rney for travel outside the Sterling Area is made ava i lab le au toma t ica l ly to residents by the authorized dealers, and add i t ional amounts for travel w i ll be approved by the Bank of Jama ica upon presentation of sa t isfac tory documentation (e.g., tickets, hotel reservations, and estimates of daily expend i tures). Moreover, authorized dealers may, sub ject to the presentation of supporting evidence, sell fo re ign exchange for the fo l low ing: cash gifts of up to £J 250 f rom each dono r; r e funds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees without limit, as well as transfers f rom the Ministry of External A f f a i rs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established s ta f fs, High Commissioners, and d ip loma ts; up to a limit of £J 1,000 for (1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and re fund of prem iums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscrip- tions to trade o rgan iza t ions; up to a limit of £J 2,000 f or commissions and expenses due by Jama ican firms to the ir agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jama ica of newspaper and magaz ine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; specified payments, up to a limit of £J 2,500, that are due by Jama ican insurers to nonresident insured parties under l i fe or endowment insurance policies; agents' expenses and fees, up to £J 2,500, due by Jama ican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies; loans or ove rd ra ft fac i l i t ies to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled Jama ican companies, up to £J 1,000 and £J 10,000, respec- tively. Other standard allocations inc lude, on an annual basis, £J 2,000 for each student studying abroad and £J 500 f rom each remitter for each cha r i ty; app l ica t ions for exchange w i th in these limits are approved automatically by the Bank of Jama ica if supported by the appropriate documen ta ry evidence. Requests for add i t ional amoun ts or for purposes for wh ich there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by cha r i tab le ins t i tu t ions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jama ican banknotes not exceeding £J 10 and other notes, w i th the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding £J 100 in va lue. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. 302 JAMAICA Exports and Export Proceeds Many exports, par t icu lar ly to the dollar area, require export licenses. Some exports (e.g., vegetables) are subject to licensing to ensure adequate local supplies. Exporters to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export proceeds; exporters to other countries are required to surrender their exchange proceeds, wh ich must be obtained in one of the specified currencies, to authorized dealers w i th in six months f rom the date of shipment. However, certain export- ers may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to fac i l i ta te the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in other currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jama ica may not bring in Jama ican and/or U.K. bank- notes of an aggregate va lue exceeding £J 10 (i.e., £ stg. 10 ); nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes. Capital Investments in Sterling Area securities by residents are permitted f ree ly. Investments in other securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securities may only be purchased in the United Kingdom with "reinvestment" currency. The sale of securities by residents to nonresidents may be allowed, provided that the f u ll proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in foreign cu r rency; the latter must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica if permission is not given to reinvest the proceeds in other securities. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made freely by residents. Direct investments in other countries are restricted, but permission may be granted for investments that would enable Jamaica to earn foreign exchange in a short period. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents for wh ich "approved status" is sought require the approval of the exchange control authori- ties (wh ich is usually gran ted) and must be made in the currency appropriate to the country of permanent residence of the investor or in External Account sterling. To qua l i fy for "approved status," an enterprise must have adequa te capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted "approved status," repatriation of the capital (including any appreciation in value) is permitted at any time; remittances of profits 303 JAMAICA and dividends are permitted when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Remittances of profits resulting f rom foreign investment in respect of wh ich "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a resident) has to take place through Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling Area) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not norma l ly permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jama ican companies owned or controlled by them. Transfers to nonresident beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Changes during 1964 April 1. A new open general license for imports replaced the open general license dated April 1, 1961, and all amendments thereto. April 22. All import duties were increased by 10 per cent ad valorem, with the exception of those on certain basic foods tu f fs, which were unchanged, and those on certain luxury items, which were increased by 20 per cent ad valorem. November 23. The Bank of Jamaica's commission charge on outward transfers was raised from % to % of 1 per cent. 304 JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Japanese Yen 360.00 = US$1. The official limits of buy ing and selling rates for U.S. dollars ( spo t ), which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper limit) and ¥ 357.30 (lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Au thor ized banks may freely carry out spot and fo rwa rd exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries except the Republic of Korea may be made in any currency, and receipts f rom those countries may be obtained in any of the designated receivable cu r renc ie s ;l receipts in other cur- rencies require an ind iv idual license. Settlements in yen with those countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Payments to and f rom the Republic of Korea are made through accounts established under the bilateral payments agreement with that country, but payments f rom Korea may also be accepted in any of the designated receivable currencies and payments for specified invisibles may be made w i thout using these accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions incidental thereto, with yen pro- 1 In addition to yen, the designated receivable currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and UJ3. dollars. 305 JAPAN ceeds f rom sales of designated receivable foreign currencies, with transfers f rom other Free Yen Accounts, and with proceeds f rom other authorized payments. There are no restrictions on payments f rom these accounts. The yen balance on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts include pro- ceeds f rom the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months f rom the date of validated acquisition, proceeds from sales of fixed assets, and yen in excess of the amount of US$5,000 which permanent emigrants are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances on these accounts are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to one fifth of the balance at the end of the year or US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdrawals f rom these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meet- ing the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized freely, thus enabling the ind iv idual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in wh ich certain proceeds from investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for mak ing other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds f rom for- eigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts w i thout hav ing been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but in practice 93 per cent of nongovernment imports are liberalized. There are d ifferent licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list"), the importer must first obtain f rom MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative princi- ple. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the 306 JAPAN country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Auto- matic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and without restriction by MITI. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are, in effec t, free of quantitative restriction, since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items sub ject to the Au toma t ic Approval System may be imported f rom any country. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally within a period f rom the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the goods to four months a f t er customs c lea rance ). When the settlement proposal is not in accordance w i th one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; currently the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent, 5 per cent, or 35 per cent of the value of the intended imports, depend ing on the goods to be imported ( f or imports f rom the Ryukyu Islands and the Bonin Islands, the deposit is %0 °f 1 per cen t ). The deposit is returned a f ter 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percentage of deposit can be increased or decreased. The 1 per cent deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other co l la tera l; the other deposits must be made in cash. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval. However, most such pay- ments are approved freely by authorized banks w i thout any limitation or w i th in certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, inc lud ing payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; except for tour ism, they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism, an allowance equ iva lent to US$500 a person for one trip a year is auto- matically made ava i lab le; for additional amounts, special authorization is required. A tourist is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and f rom his destination. Certain contracts requ ire app rova l; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting f rom the contract may be made f ree ly. Settle- ments wh ich are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, ind iv idual approva l; under this method, payments for serv- ices, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months a f te r, receipt of the services, etc. 307 JAPAN Both residents and nonresidents may take out free ly ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out freely foreign cur- rencies up to the amount wh ich he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank ce r t i f ica t ion" ), in order that the requirements concerning prescription of cu r rency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally requ ired, except for goods sub ject to the fo l low ing restrictions: restrictions on strategic goods to control the ir export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., m inera ls, fe r t i l ize r s, and staple f o o d s t u f f s ); and restrictions designed to fores ta ll the imposition of import restric- tions by other countries (e.g., on such commodities as pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and certain textiles). Exports under proc- essing and consignment sale contracts and exports for wh ich settle- ment is not under the standard method also requ ire ind iv idual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in genera l, be settled by d r aw ing a b i ll of exchange payab le w i th in five mon ths a f t er sight or w i th in six months a f ter shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 10 days f rom the date of acquisition. However, t rad ing concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to ho ld fo re ign currency deposit accounts w i th au tho r ized banks, in wh ich they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and /or sterling from exports and invisibles for a max imum of 20 days; du r ing this period, they may use the exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the au thor ized banks for yen. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the s tandard me thod of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the va lue of services, etc., must be obtained w i th in one year b e f o r e, or w i th in six mon ths after, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nons tandard method are sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. Receipts f r om invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to fac i l i ta te pay- ments for current invisibles, specified residents ( sh ipp ing companies, etc.) are authorized to keep fore ign currency deposit accounts w i th banks in the designated receivable foreign currenc ies. 308 JAPAN Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, bene- ficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 15 per cent of the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted industry, up to 10 per cent of the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry,2 and up to 5 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acquired by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for participation in management is subject to individual validation, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese economy. All these acquisitions, to be validated, must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. Stocks in the fo rm of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months f rom the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds f rom the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and pro- ceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign invest- ment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds from the sale of validated stock, as well as transfers abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, are permitted. Proceeds f rom validated debentures and beneficiary certificates may be remitted after six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, 2 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other transportation, electric and gas utilities, and banks. 309 JAPAN provided that the securities have been held for at least three years f rom the date of acquisition (or f rom December 18, 1964 for securities acquired be fo re that da te ). Repayments of loans extended to residents f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, three years f rom the date of the loan. When fore ign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to in fo rm the Bank of J ap an; and when the branches or plants wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with such procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Transfers of capital abroad and investments abroad by residents are subject to approval. Emigrants may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Changes during 1964 January 11. Imports of 3 items under the Brussels nomenclature were liberalized. February 29. Imports of 7 items, including lead and zinc goods, were liberalized. March 18. The rates for deposits which importers are required to make with an authorized bank were increased temporarily; the range of deposit rates was changed f r om 1 and 5 per cent to 1, 5, and 35 per cent. April 1. The foreign exchange budget was abolished. For the goods still restricted, importers had to obtain an import license from MITI. April 1. The Ministerial Council, the main function of wh ich was to establish the foreign exchange budget and approve its revision, was abolished. April 1. For tour ism —for which no payments had been permitted hitherto —an a l lowance equivalent to US$500 a person for one trip a year became available au toma t ica l ly; for additional amounts, special authorization was required. Furthermore, a tourist was permitted to pay in yen, be fo re departure, the cost of transportation to and f rom his destination. April 1. With regard to yen-based investment (i.e., foreign yen investments made in Japan before July 1963 on the understanding that the income and principal would not be transferable in foreign cur- 310 JAPAN rency), the Ministry of Finance announced that, f rom April 1, the transfer abroad of current income accruing henceforth from the invest- ment would be permitted, while the principal and income accumulated in the past could be deposited in a Nonresident Yen Deposit Account. April 7. Imports of 8 items, including color television receivers and electric generators with a capacity of 400,000 kw. or less, were liberalized. April 21. The rates of advance import deposit requirements were reduced for several items. May 8. Imports of fresh lemons were liberalized. July 1. The import of foreign motion pictures was liberalized. September 1. The rates of advance import deposit requirements were reduced for 27 items, including cotton, wool, and feedstuffs. October 1. Imports of 12 items, including bulldozers and chemical fertilizers, were liberalized. This reduced the number of items still restricted, i.e., included on the "negative list," to 162 and raised the liberalization ratio to 93 per cent. November 20. Charter contracts for more than one year for import- ing coal and iron ore were liberalized. December 18. Restrictions were eased on several types of transactions and payments. Proceeds f rom the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn f rom Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts could in fu tu re be deposited in Non- resident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities had been held for at least three years f rom the date of acquisition (or f rom Decem- ber 18, 1964 for securities acquired before that date). Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts would become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, three years f rom the date of the loan. Proceeds f rom the sale of real estate, acquired by nonresidents with a license, could be remitted, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan. Proceeds from l i fe insurance policies could be remitted freely to nonresident beneficiaries, provided that the beneficiaries had been residents in Japan when the policy- holder had purchased the insurance. Premiums of life insurance policies contracted with foreign insurance companies by residents when their status was that of nonresidents could be remitted freely. Authority to approve the fo l low ing transactions was delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Bank of Japan: the sale of foreign currency securities by residents to nonresidents; borrowing for living expenses from non- resident relatives, and loans for living expenses to nonresident relatives in cases of hardship. 311 JORDAN1 Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Jordan Dinar 1 = US$2.80. The off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buy ing, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. Au thor ized banks deal in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies at rates usua l ly based on the rates in the London market. Fees are levied on the issue of import licenses at the rate of 4 per cent when the goods are to be paid for in fore ign exchange, and % of 1 per cent for goods imported without exchange. A fee of %0 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank of Jordan for sales of exchange for imports and invisibles, except educational expenses and import payments and payments for invisibles by government depar tmen ts and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange con trol is adm in is tered by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment of the Cen tral Bank of Jo rdan. Import policy is fo rmu la ted by an Import Committee, w h i ch is composed of the Controller of Imports, the Undersecre tary for Na t ional Economy, the Director of Customs, the Head of the Foreign Exchange Depar tment of the Central Bank of Jo rd an, the Director of Income Tax, and two persons representing the Chambers of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Con tro l ler of the Import Department of the Ministry of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Jo rdan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such payments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jo rdan d ina rs to a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an author- ized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area (except Yugo s lav ia )2 must be made in sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account w i th an au thor ized bank in Jordan, or in currency appropr ia te to the country of residence of the recipient and/or the coun try of or ig in of the goods. 1 In view of the changes that took place on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 Under an agreement w i th the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, the proceeds of exports of Jordan phosphates to Yugoslavia may be used only to make pay- ments to Yugoslavia for imports of Yugoslav goods and approved invisibles. 312 JORDAN Proceeds f r om expor ts and inv is ib les must be co l lec ted, and sur- rendered where required, as fo l lows: f rom residents of the Sterling A rea, in resident s ter l ing or in Jo rdan d ina rs f r om a nonres ident Sterling Area Account with an au tho r ized bank in J o r d a n; f r om residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in sterling f r om an Ex ternal Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, in Jordan d ina rs f rom a nonres ident Ex ternal Account w i th an au tho r ized bank in Jo rdan, or in any specified currency .3 Nonresident Accounts Subject to the pr ior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, author- ized banks may open nonres ident accoun ts designated e i ther Sterling Area Accoun ts or Ex ternal Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate fund s. The approval of the Central Bank of Jordan is necessary for redesignation of residence, for t ran s fe rs f r om resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. T rans fe rs between similarly des igna ted nonres i- dent accounts, t ran s fe rs f rom External Accounts to Sterling Area Accoun ts, and t rans fe rs f rom nonresident to resident accoun ts are permitted free ly. imports and Import Payments Imports of ce r ta in i t em s4 f r om any source and a ll imports f r om Israel are p roh ib i ted. Imports of f ru i ts and vegetables are exempt f r om licensing requirements. All other imports, except those covered by an agreement between Jo rdan and the expor t ing coun t ry, requ i re impo rt licenses. These are granted f ree ly by the Ministry of National Economy, except for certain items wh ich are sub ject to scru t iny by either the Import Committee or the Undersecretary for Na t ional Economy, whose pr ior approval is also required for imports of indus- trial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an indus tr ial firm. A fee of 4 per cent is payab le on licenses for imports paid for in nonresident account d ina rs or fo re ign exchange. A fee of l/2 of 1 per 8 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian l ire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. * Cement (except wh i te c em en t ), carbonic acid, a rak, non a l coho l ic beverages, cigarettes, diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses, diesel engines for conversion of petrol-driven vehicles, au tomob i les w i t h o ut engines or tires, refr igera tors, and o ther cooling apparatus and washing mach ines w i thout the main parts. 313 JORDAN cent is payable on licenses issued w i thout exchange (e.g., for samples, household effects, char i tab le donations in k i n d ). Licenses for imports originating in A rab League coun tr ies5 are valid for 4 months and those for imports originating in other countries for 6 months. For the latter, the importer must open a letter of credit w i th in 45 days of the date of issue of the license and must complete the process of impor ta t ion w i th in the period of validity of the license. If the importer chooses to pay against documents, the requirement that he open a letter of credit is dispensed w i th, provided that the goods are shipped w i th in 3 months of the date of issue of the license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fo l low ing types of invisibles are generally permitted: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordan ian nationals ab road; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling ab road; expenditures for education; expenses of medical treatment; business expenses ab road; and insur- ance payments in accordance with special regulations. The policy in respect of these payments is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. However, foreign exchange is not granted for travel to Iraq, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Saudi, Arab ia, or the Syrian A rab Republic, though residents of Jordan and nationals of these countries traveling to them may take out up to JD 100 in Jordan ian notes and coins. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 25 in Jordan ian notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency; in addition, tourists and other nonresidents may take out foreign currency notes which they had previously brought into the country. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, inc lud ing sterling, surrendered. Proceeds f rom exports to Arab League countries of agriculture products and locally manu- factured goods are exempt from the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tann ing company, the cement p lan t, and the petroleum refinery. Exports to Israel are prohibited. 6 The Arab League countries are Algeria, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, and Yemen. 314 JORDAN Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange ( inc lud ing sterling) receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a max imum of JD 100 in Jo rdan ian currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any fore ign currency ( inc lud ing sterling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported free ly, but exports of capital require approval. Current income resulting f rom nonresident investments in Jordan may be t rans fe r red abroad. Under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Capital Investment, effec t ive May 1, 1955, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted regu lar ly, w i thout any l im i ta t ion, in the currency of the original investment. A f t er one year, repatriation of the capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same fo re ign currency in wh ich the original investment was made. The Government may approve more liberal provisions upon application. Changes during 1964 June 11. Import duties were increased across the board by 3 per- centage points. September 22. Import duties were increased across the board by a fu r ther 0.5 percentage point. October 1. The Central Bank of Jordan took over the func t ions of the Currency Control Department of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange control was henceforth to be administered by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. October 1. The fee of % of 1 per cent levied on exchange permits for most invisibles was abolished. A fee of V io of 1 per cent was levied on exchange permits for most invisibles and for most import payments. October 1. Foreign exchange was no longer granted for travel to Iraq, Kuwa i t, and Saudi Arabia. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes took place in 1965: January 1. The m in imum amount of export proceeds that must be surrendered was raised f rom JD 20 to JD 50. January 1. Exports of phosphates to India could no longer be settled in Indian rupees. 315 KENYA1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Kenya has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the East A f r ican shilling, which is o f f ic ia l ly maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the rela- tionship EA Sh 1 = US$0.14. It circulates freely in the East Afr ican currency area, wh ich comprises Aden, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the public, the East A f r i c an Currency Board stands ready to issue East African currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r i c an currency. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the pub l ic has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are at present within l/8 per cent and y» per cent, respectively, of parity. Banks in Kenya base their rates for other currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing standard alloca- tions of foreign exchange is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling, in East A f r i c an shillings to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in sterling, in East A f r ican shillings f rom an Exter- nal Accoun t, or in any convertible foreign currency. However, settle- ments w i th the United A rab Republic related to merchandise trans- actions are made through centralized accounts denominated in inconve r t ib le sterling, in accordance with a bilateral payments agree- ment. 1 Kenya became a member of the In t e rn a t ion al Mone ta ry Fund on February 3, 1964. 316 KENYA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by Kenya residents, with transfers f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East A f r i c an shillings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Kenya residents, for pay- ments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i thdrawa ls by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya. Accounts in East A f r i c an shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency f rom authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common m a rk e t2 is unrestricted. Specific import licenses are required for certain goods from other sources; other goods may be imported without licenses. All imports f rom South A f r i ca and metro- politan Portugal are prohibited. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area countries. Sales of exchange for other purposes require 2 The East Afr ican common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 317 KENYA the approval of the exchange control authorities. Travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in domestic currency notes. Travelers to destinations outside the Sterling Area may take out up to EA Sh 1,000 in domestic currency notes or sterling notes and up to £ stg. 250 in other banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tu f fs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Other goods may be exported without licenses. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common market (see footnote 2) is unrestricted. All exports to South A f r i ca and metropolitan Portugal are prohibited. Export proceeds, other than those in Sterling Area currencies, must be offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into East A f r ican shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely fore ign currency notes; the import of domestic cur- rency notes must not exceed EA Sh 1,000 in value for each traveler. Capital Movements of capital between Kenya and other Sterling Area countries are not restricted. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Changes during 1964 During the year a wide range of import items was made subject to specific import licensing. April 11. Agreement was reached among the countries of the East A f r ican cofhmon market to subject certain interterritorial trade to export and import quotas. November 25. The upper limit on the authorized banks' selling rates for sterling in transactions with the public was raised from % per cent to % per cent over parity. 318 KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. On May 3, 1964 a new fluctuating rate based on an exchange certificate system was introduced. In practice, no market for exchange certificates has developed, and all transactions take place at a rate of W 255 per US$1. Many exports, however, receive subsidies ranging from W 3 to W 25 per US$1. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance determines exchange rates, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to prescrip- tion of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange opera- tions, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in par t; it has been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Bank of Korea and five commercial banks, as well as their branch offices, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry or the ministries concerned. Prescription of Currency Under a bilateral payments agreement with Japan, settlements with that country must be made through a bilateral clearing account, except for settlements on account of certain trade transactions requiring cash payment in U.S. dollars. There is also a bilateral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clearing account has yet been established and all settlements are made in convertible exchange. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. The methods of payment on account of other settlements are set for th in licenses or conditions attached to sales of exchange by the Bank of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval 319 KOREA of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances f rom ba lances that have accrued f rom remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or f rom exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the M in is try of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom a b r o a d ). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to the Bank of Korea or an authorized bank at the banks' preva i l ing buy ing rate, and they may be debited, sub ject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for salary payments to fore ign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold foreign currency time deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the Bank of Korea and with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments The total value and composition of imports are established under sem iannual import programs. There is an automatic approval pro- cedure for most imports, but some imports require individual licenses even when included under the automatic approval procedure. No licenses are issued for any goods originating f rom communist coun- tries and for certain imports f rom all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those ( inc lud ing most raw materials and capital goods) paid for with U.S. aid f u n ds and those paid for with exchange f rom other sources (so-called KFX impo r t s ). In certain cases, payment for imports usually financed with U.S. aid f u n ds may be made with KFX exchange. Certain imports are reserved only for end-users, i.e., manu fac tu re rs and exporters who need specified raw materials. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a m in imum va lue of $30,000 of exports is requ ired each year. For each ca lendar quarter, a trader may submit applications for import licenses equivalent to 25 per cent of the total amount of his earnings du r ing the same quarter from exports, f rom sales of goods and services to UN forces stationed in Korea, and f rom sales of gold to the Bank of Korea.1 Except for imports for exports, all applications for licenses for KFX-financed imports as well as for most aid imports must be accompanied by an 1 In pr inc ip le, the en t i t lement is for 100 per cent of the to tal amount of these earnings. 320 KOREA advance deposit of W 255 per US$1. For imports of wheat and cotton under the aid program, a minimum of W 50 per US$1 must be deposited at the time the application for a "subauthorization" is filed; a minimum of W 50 per US$1, at the time the import license is issued; and the remainder, at the time the bill of lading is released. Except for imports to be used by industries which earn foreign exchange and a few others, fu ll payment in won is required when the letter of credit covering imports paid for with KFX exchange is opened. Payments for Invisibles All exports to communist countries, and exports of certain goods licenses. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Departing foreigners may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, and they may take out any foreign exchange that they had registered on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton; raw hides; precious metals; certain ores, minerals, and chemicals; bituminous coal; pu lp; and lumber) to all other countries, are prohibited. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered at the W 255 rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Some exports, however, receive subsidies, which are fixed from time to time by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The subsidies in effect are as follows: W 20 per U.S. dollar for exports to new markets; W 25 per U.S. dollar for new exports; and W 3 to W 25 per U.S. dollar for commodities requiring export promotion. A trader's export sales are taken into account in deter- mining the amount of import licenses he may apply for (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Sixteen specified commodities may be exported under a barter arrangement. They are not eligible for subsidies, and individual licenses are required. Traders who export under the barter arrangement are entitled to receive preferences in the granting of import licenses. Such preferences are limited to 50 per cent of the total value of exports, and exporters of barter items cannot receive more than 50 per cent of the import licenses available for any particular category of imports. 321 KOREA Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds -derived from invisibles must either be sold to the Bank of Korea at the W 255 rate or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes is prohib- ited. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, which must be declared upon entry. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital invest- ment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Investment Encouragement Law, the Law Guaranteeing Repayment for Loans, and the Law Governing Importation of Capital Goods on Long-Term Repayment Basis, respectively. Changes during 1964 May 3. A ma jor exchange reform was introduced which greatly simplified the exchange system. A new effective rate of W 255 per U.S. dollar was introduced, and a number of special schemes for subsidizing exports and taxing imports were eliminated. In subsequent months, there was some relaxation of quantitative restrictions on imports. August 3. A quasi-automatic import system was introduced under which most goods previously requiring an individual import license were brought under the automatic approval procedure. The amount of import licenses that importers could obtain was related to their foreign exchange earnings as follows. No trader could submit appli- cations for import licenses to a value in excess of 20 per cent of the total of his earnings in May, June, and July from exports, from sales of goods and services to UN forces stationed in Korea, and from sales of gold to the Bank of Korea. September 1. Exports permitted unde^ the barter arrangement were increased from 8 commodities to 16. November 12. The number of items in the KFX program that could only be imported by end-users was reduced from 19 to 11. Advance deposits against imports of ordinary commodities were raised from W 100 to W 255 per US$1. November 13. The maximum import application permitted to each trader was increased for the period August through December 1964 from 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the total of his earnings from 322 KOREA exports, f rom sales of goods and services to UN forces stationed in Korea, and from sales of gold to the Bank of Korea. November 27. The proceeds of exports could also be obtained in Canadian dollars, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss f rancs; previously, only deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars were accepted. November 27. Nonresidents and foreign residents were permitted to hold foreign currency time deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks, and certain residents of Korean nationality were permitted to hold current accounts in foreign currencies with the Bank of Korea and with authorized banks. Branch offices of all commercial banks were authorized to deal in foreign exchange. December 19. Export subsidies ranging f rom W 3 to W 25 per US$1 were introduced. Exports to new markets received a subsidy of W 20 per US$1; new exports one of W 25 per US$1; and exports requiring export promotion one of W 3 to W 25 per US$1. 323 KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is Kuwaiti Dinar 1 — US$2.80. The dinar is officially defined in terms of gold and is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.9975 buying, and KD 1.0025 selling, per £ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official market are based on London market rates. There is a free market in which exchange may be dealt in with- out restriction as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, differ f rom official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On Decem- ber 31, 1964, the average selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the official market was KD 0.3605 per US$1, and in the free market it was within a range of KD 0.35930 to KD 0.35965 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwait. Control is exercised only over the provision of exchange in the official market for payments to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is administered by the Kuwait Currency Board. Authority to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is dele- gated to the banks operating in Kuwait. Individual Letters of Recom- mendation, required for other payments through the official market in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Currency Board. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. The limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Customs and Ports. Prescription of Currency Kuwait is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescription of currency requirements broadly simi- lar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the official market to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the 324 KUWAIT area to which the payment is made. Payments f rom other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart f rom payments to the Government, payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received through the off ic ial market. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than food- s tu f fs; licenses are issued freely. Registered importers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses. All imports from Israel, including imports of Israeli manufacture and those which contain Israeli materials or are manufactured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. The importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own not less than 51 per cent of the stock. Firms in which partners are Kuwaitis and non-Kuwaitis may obtain nonre- newable general import licenses valid for two years. Sterling Area currencies are provided freely for payments to resi- dents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports from any source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free market. The banks operating in Kuwait are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non-sterling currency for payments for imports from outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a fu ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation that they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwait. When payment is made in a non-sterling currency, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommenda- tion which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain fur ther authorizations under new Letters of Recommendation on presentation of accountings of how the previous allocations have been used. 325 KUWAIT For payments for goods purchased in countries outside the Sterling Area for resale without shipment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the official market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to Kuwait. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area countries, or to residents of any country in exchange acquired in the free market. Payments through the official market to residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrangements on payments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks operating in Kuwait have been granted general authority to sell to Kuwaiti nationals non-sterling currencies up to the equivalent of KD 250 a person for each trip for travel outside the Sterling Area, without specific reference to the Currency Board. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three months; this allowance is applicable to all members of the fam i ly who accompany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes. For all other payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area which are made through the official market, a separate Letter of Recommendation must be obtained from the Currency Board for each payment. Such authorization will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwait will be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presentation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommendation will be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. The Currency Board will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allowance in any currency of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each family. This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose including the transfer of capital. This exchange is auto- matically available; larger amounts require special authorization by the Currency Board. 326 KUWAIT Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of sheep, poultry, and fats are prohibited, and those of other foodstuffs may be either licensed or prohibited in times of emergency or shortage; currently, exports of sugar are prohibited. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency, although govern- ment agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait. No control is imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling Area, or to any country if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recom- mendation f rom the Currency Board is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in which nonresident capital is involved is liqui- dated, permission is given automatically for the repatriation through the official market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency appropriate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to trans- fer capital, within limits approved by the Exchange Control, to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area for investment purposes, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area. Transfers of capital for other purposes by residents through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a fam i ly per 327 KUWAIT annum (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are subject to the approval of the Currency Board, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Changes during 1964 November 15. The administration of exchange control was trans- ferred f rom the Ministry of Finance and Industry to the Kuwait Currency Board. November 29. All private imports other than foods tu f fs required an import license f rom the Ministry of Trade. Previously, licenses were required only for arms, ammunition, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and narcotics. 328 Exchange Rate System LAOS No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods, government requirements, 60 per cent of export proceeds, and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange trans- actions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 237.60 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with unlimited amounts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the official rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange O f f i c e2 jointly with the Department of Customs authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import pro- grams, records all imports, authorizes payments for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The five commercial banks are authorized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R., providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French francs as the unit of account. 1The official free market rate has tended to settle around K 500 per US$1. 2 Since January 1,1964, under the Ministry of Finance. 329 LAOS Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign cur- rencies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Govern- ment. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, coffee, and soft drinks are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accordance with the import programs financed by assistance f rom Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States; certain of these com- modities may not be imported f rom specified countries.3 However, petroleum products, for which specific U.S. aid is made available, may be imported from some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the various import programs financed with foreign aid, importers apply to the National Exchange Office for licenses; a f ter clearance by the customs authorities in respect of valuation, the exchange licenses automatically become import licenses. Under the U.S. import program, suppliers are paid direct f rom the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Government at the Chase Manha t tan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, after the goods involved have been certified as conform ing to the list of commodities qualified for foreign financing. Under the U.K. import program, foreign exchange is made available by the United Kingdom direct to the commercial banks upon the opening of letters of credit. Under the Australian import program, the Laotian Government requests the Australian Government to purchase and deliver to Laos specified goods. The Australian Government makes payment to the suppliers and covers all costs up to the Laotian port of entry, when the goods become the property of the Laotian Government. The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import programs, with the exception of imports 8 The countries from which goods may not be imported under the U.S. import program are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King- dom, and countries in the Sino-Soviet bloc. 330 LAOS to meet government requirements. However, importers are free to obtain exchange through the official f ree market for any amount of imports. Under the import programs financed with foreign aid, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the National Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import programs are regarded as a part of the import payment. The following are the main categories of payments for invisibles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange: official expenditures by the Government; study abroad (initial installation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, transport, and other miscellaneous expenses); family maintenance; and specified insurance and reinsurance payments. All other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, and all exporters must pay an annual registration fee. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited. Sixty per cent of all export proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the National Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks or sold in the free market. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements are applied to the following invisi- bles: official expenses, other than salaries of foreign employees, by embassies, missions, representatives, and various foreign institutions; settlements f rom insurance companies; and receipts of public service companies. Capital Incoming capital and outgoing capital are not subject to any exchange control requirements. Transactions are conducted through the free exchange market. 331 LAOS Changes during 1964 January 1. The official rate of K 240 per US$1 replaced the previous rate of K 80 per US$1. The new off ic ial rate applies to imports of aid goods, government requirements, 60 per cent of export proceeds, and specified invisibles. A legal free market was established for all other transactions, including imports not financed by foreign aid, tourism, and capital transfers. The changes in the exchange system were made as part of a stabilization program supported by financial assistance f rom Australia, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States. January 1. The additional deposit requirement for imports financed with foreign aid was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 20 per cent. January 1. In place of nonresident accounts held in Laotian cur- rency, nonresidents were permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies. Residents were also permitted to keep such accounts. September 16. The 20 per cent additional deposit requirement for imports financed with foreign aid was abolished. October 1. The exchange rate for customs valuation purposes was changed from K 240 to K 500 per US$1 for most goods not financed with foreign aid. 332 LEBANON x Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1964 were LL 3.0725 buying, and LL 3.0775 selling, per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of off ic ial assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with wh ich Lebanon has payments agreements spec ify ing the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods f rom any source and all imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities (wheat, barley, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, liquid gas, etc.) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of industrial m a ch in e ry ). All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the f ree market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the f ree market. 1 In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1965 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Iraq. 333 LEBANON Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, copper, lead, and t in) to any country and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of a few items —such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained, used, or sold free ly in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the f ree market. Changes during 1964 April 1. The Bank of Lebanon, the central bank, started operations. June 1. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent was imposed on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. Ad valorem import taxes on certain alcoholic beverages were raised. July 1. The specific import tax on sugar was raised f rom 12 piastres to 26 piastres per kilogram of white sugar and f rom 2 piastres to 12 piastres per kilogram of brown sugar. July 24. Imports of medical preparations containing saccharine, sodium saccharinate, or sodium cyclamate were made subject to import licensing. September 4- Containers for liquid gas became subject to export license. September 16. Imports of pistachio nuts no longer required a prior import license. November 5. Imports of liquid gas became subject to prior import license. December 9. Imports of molasses became subject to prior import license. 334 LEBANON NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1965: January 1. A "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 was established. It would be used for recording government transactions in foreign exchange, for valuation of official assets, and for customs valuation. Customs tar iffs were adjusted so as to prevent any change in tax yields in Lebanese pounds. 335 LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Liberian Dollar 1 = US$1. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, and rubber. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 336 LIBYA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Libyan Pound 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars only, at rates fixed daily. The rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1964 were US$2.7916 buying and selling, per £L 1; the buying and selling rates were at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign cor- respondents or branches; the banks' rates are based on quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by a con- sultative Import and Export Council, under the chairmanship of the Minister of National Economy. Prescription of Currency The Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Sterling Area. Settle- ments with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e low ). Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Libya has a trade and payments agreement with the United Arab Repub l ic, under wh ich settlements are made through a centralized bilateral clearing account maintained in sterling. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the approval of the Bank of Libya, nonresidents may open accounts with any authorized bank in Libya, in either Libyan or foreign currency. The accounts in Libyan pounds of residents of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Territories Accounts, and those of residents of other countries, External Accounts (the only exceptions being blocked accounts or accounts to which special pro- 1 In view of a change that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 8,1965. 337 LIBYA cedures app ly). Transfers may be made freely between Scheduled Territories Accounts, between External Accounts, and from External Accounts to Scheduled Territories Accounts. Funds held on Scheduled Territories Accounts may be converted into sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Funds held on External Accounts may be converted into any foreign currency, including sterling. With the approval of the exchange control authority, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya up to £L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to £L 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qua l ify for remittance in f u ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to individual licensing. One list comprises 42 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foods tu f fs, certain local manufactures, and several revenue-producing commodities. Goods on the other list, which contains 8 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines, live animals, and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are subject to government monopoly. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports from Israel, Portugal, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses from the Bank of Libya. These are granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Applications for remittances in respect of other invisibles are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20; residents may, in addition, take out without license foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of £L 300 in a calendar 338 LIBYA year as a basic travel allowance. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one ha lf of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. For business travel, residents tfnay take out the equivalent of £L 250 a trip or, subject to a maximum of £L 2,500 in any period of 6 months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for all commodities. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Exports of vegetable oils and mares are pro- hibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan currency notes may be repatriated through banking channels, provided that details are given to establish that the notes within the authorized amount were obtained from bona fide travelers f rom Libya. Capital Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 30, 1958, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such proj- ects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Residents of Libya taking up permanent residence abroad are permitted to trans- fer up to £L 5,000 for a fam i ly. The net sales proceeds after tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are freely transferable. Nonresident capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad or to import on consignment or on deferred payment terms. 339 LIBYA Changes during 1964 July 5. A revised list was issued of goods requiring an individual import license; items freed f rom licensing included radios, passenger cars, and photographic and cinematographic equipment. A list was also issued of goods wh ich, in addition to an import license, required the prior approval of the competent ministry. July 9. The Bank of Libya required foreign investors doing business in Libya to submit immediately a f u ll statement containing detailed data about the ir Libyan investments (amount, type, etc.). No transfer abroad of profits, interest, or capital relating to foreign investments in Libya would be approved by the Bank unless such a statement was filed. NOTE.—The fo l low ing change took place early in 1965: February 8. The basic travel allowance was increased f rom £L 140 in any period of 12 months to £L 300 a calendar year. For business travel, residents could take out the equivalent of £L 250 a trip or, sub ject to a max imum of £L 2,500 in any period of 6 months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. 340 MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Malagasy f ranc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship FMG 246.853 = US$1. There are fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs with the consent of the Exchange O f f ice; import licenses not involving the granting of foreign exchange are issued by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries may be made through accounts that Malagasy banks maintain with their correspondents in countries outside the French Franc A rea; frequently, however, they are made through banks in France: those with Rumania, through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports (secondhand clothes, edible oils, batteries, beer, cement, ju te bags, and metal barrels) are subject to licensing when originating in any 341 MALAGASY REPUBLIC country, including countries in the French Franc Area. Licenses are also required for imports f rom countries in the Area if such goods originated f rom outside the Area and have not undergone transfor- mation in a French Franc Area country in accordance with certain rules, and for all imports f rom French Somaliland. All other goods from the Area may be imported freely. For restricted imports an annual import program is established. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Malagasy Committee. The import program is based on the establishment of quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. The program contains global quotas applicable to all EEC countries other than France, and global quotas applicable to all countries outside the French Franc Area (including the EEC countries other than F rance ). Certain quotas (i.e., for fabr ics, clothing, tools, and cutlery) may be used only up to fixed percentages for imports f rom the Far East. Imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area that do not require financial settlement require licenses not involving foreign exchange. Issue of an import license serves as authorization to the com- mercial bank to make payment. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), licenses are granted for imports of certain goods that are not restricted for protective reasons, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom an EFAC account held by the person who was granted the import license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly to countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Residents traveling abroad may obtain a foreign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of FMG 125,000 per annum; in addition, they may take out for each trip up to F 750 in French f ranc banknotes or up to FMG 75,000 in Malagasy f ranc s. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products (see below) require an export license. Products under quota are co f fee, van i l la, cloves, and superior-grade r ice; these commodities require the visa of the appropriate stabilization fund before an export license is granted. Controlled products are lentils, 342 MALAGASY REPUBLIC rice, rice bran, peanut oil cake, sisal, and certain mining products; these require the visa of the competent ministry before an export license is granted. Exports of other commodities to the French Franc Area do not require an export license unless they have previously been imported f rom outside that Area. With minor exceptions, export licenses or exchange surrender commitments are required for all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds of exports to countries outside the French Franc Area must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of their collection. Exporters paid in currencies of countries outside the Area may, however, retain 15 per cent of their proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder to pay for certain imports, for representation and advertising expenses, and for business trips abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect, and surrender within one month from the date of receipt of foreign exchange, amounts due f rom nonresidents in respect of services and all income exceeding FMG 50,000 f rom foreign securities. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and other French Franc Area countries are free of control. The t ran s fer of capital by residents to countries outside the French Franc Area is subject to individual approval. Foreign investments of any kind f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to the prior authorization of the Exchange O f f ice; this authorization implies a transfer guarantee —valid for all countries outside the French Franc Area—with respect to earnings as well as liquidation proceeds. Enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit f rom specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, the obtaining of supplementary foreign exchange allocations above those allotted in the annual import program for necessary imports, etc. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between 343 MALAGASY REPUBLIC France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to the Malagasy Republic, was terminated. March L Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to the Malagasy Republic, was terminated. March 21. The import program was published for the 12-month period that began on March 15, 1964. In contrast to the previous program, this one did not include any bilateral quotas for Eastern European countries. December 16. The Malagasy Republic notified the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade with regard to Japan. 344 MALAWI1 2 Exchange Rate System The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Pound. The official value of the Malawi pound is 2.48828 grams of fine gold, corresponding to £M 1 = US$2.80. The Malawi pound circulates concurrently with the Rhodesia and Nyasaland Pound,3 which is at par with the pound sterling, giving a relationship to the U.S. dollar of £RN 1 = US$2.80. The authorized banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1964, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.81 % buying, and US$2.77%6 selling, per £M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland under powers delegated to it by the Ministers of Finance of the three territories of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Changes during 1964 November 16. The Reserve Bank of Malawi, the newly established central bank of the country, started issuing the Malawi pound to replace the Rhodesia and Nyasaland pound at par. The currency change-over was to be completed by June 1, 1965. In the mean- time, the two currencies would be legal tender in Malawi. 1 Malawi is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 This country was former ly known as Nyasaland when it formed part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, which was dissolved on December 31, 1963. The common monetary area will be dissolved on June 1, 1965, when exchange control will be administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi. In the interim, the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland will continue to exercise administrative authority over exchange control matters in each of the three successor territories, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia. 8 The currency of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. 345 MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Malayan Dollar 3.06122 = US$1. The Central Bank of Malaysia has not established official buying and selling rates for foreign currencies. The Currency Board buys sterling at 2s. 4%d., and sells it at 2s. 3%d., per M$l. The commercial banks quote agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malayan dollars against sterling in the Malaysian exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1964, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.07 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia (the States of Malaya and the States of Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore) .2 Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government, except in Singapore where the State Government is responsible. The day-to-day administration of import control in the States of Malaya is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise, that in Singapore by the Depart- ment of Import and Export Control, and that in Sabah and Sarawak by the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the prescrip- tion of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area coun- tries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. 1 The list of specified currencies is identical with that established under the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations. 2 The customs area includes the free ports of Labuan, Penang, and Singapore. 346 MALAYSIA Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malayan dollars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for t rans fer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be t rans fe r red to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency. Accounts of residents of Indonesia are designated Indonesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts are credited with those capital proceeds due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be transferred abroad. Balances on Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts may either be invested in Malaysian securities with a maturity beyond five years or, with permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom. Permission for such transfers to Blocked Sterling Accounts is given free ly. In cases of ha rdsh ip, moderate amounts are released f rom Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of investments made out of Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts must be credited to a Blocked Malayan Dollar Account. Earnings accru ing f rom such investments, however, are freely transferable. Imports and Import Payments Ta r i f fs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not as yet been un i f ied, although steps toward fu ll unification are being taken. Some ta r i f fs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia that previously were independent. Most imports are permitted freely under open general licenses or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. Certain imports are sub ject to quantitative restriction pending the introduction of protective customs duties upon the adoption of the external tariff of the Malaysian Common Market. A few imports are controlled for health, security, or moral reasons, and certain conditions must be satisfied be fo re licenses are issued. In respect of the former Federation of Malaya (now the States of M a l a y a ), imports of certain textiles f rom Mainland China are prohibited as a measure to protect the local textile industry; imports of rice from any country are conditional on the importer purchasing 347 MALAYSIA one ton of rice from official stocks for every ton imported; imports of sugar and molasses3 are subject to quantitative restriction for protective reasons; all imports from South Africa are prohibited; and all imports of goods of Indonesian origin are subject to specific licensing. Singapore maintains quantitative restrictions for protective reasons on imports of a number of commodities, including torchlight and transistor radio batteries and radiopack batteries, electric bulbs, tires and tubes, and wheat flour; imports of monosodium glutamate and glutamic acid are prohibited. All imports into Singapore of goods of Netherlands origin are subject to specific import license. All imports into Sarawak f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in for- eign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign cur- rency are permitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and per- sonal payments to other countries are, in general, authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel 'abroad. Special arrangements permit fam i ly remittances to Mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 f rom a fam i ly in any one month. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Malayan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malayan notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei. Exports and Export Proceeds The four territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports f rom any Malaysian territory. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area, and for exports to Indonesia of gold, platinum, precious stones, rubber, tin, 3 The items of tariff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500, including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses. 348 MALAYSIA and cigarettes; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct f rom Brunei may bring in any amount in Malayan notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malayan notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India and Indonesia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval, if it is to be made otherwise. Invest- ments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. The repatriation of initial capital and appreciation to countries outside the Sterling Area is permitted only for investment projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities since January 1, 1950; the proceeds realized from investments in recognized marketable securities are not remittable unless accruing to a resident of a Scandinavian country. Funds of a capital nature owned by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, the transfer of which is not approved by the exchange control authorities, are in the first instance credited to Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Balances in such accounts may, on appli- cation, be freely transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. However, remittances from Malaysia to the Scandinavian countries by residents of those countries in respect of their own assets are permitted freely on application. Banks are permitted to lend funds freely for working capital to nonresident-controlled com- 349 MALAYSIA panies, unless a limit has been set to such borrowings by the exchange control authorities. All other transfers of a capital nature to countries outside the Sterling Area are approved liberally on an individual basis by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. They include (1) the remittance of funds invested by nonresidents in companies that have gone into voluntary liquidation, provided that the liquidation has not been initiated by the nonresident; (2) the transfer of proceeds f rom the sale by nonresidents of real estate, furniture, etc., provided that the property since purchase has been maintained solely for occupation and/or use by the owner and has not represented an investment; and (3) gifts up to an annual total of £ stg. 250, although in certain cases applications are approved to the extent of £ stg. 1,000 per annum. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Ster- ling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Changes during 1964 April 22. Imports into Singapore of tires and tubes for passenger cars, trucks, and buses from all sources, except those manu fac tu red in the States of Malaya, became subject to quantitative restriction. June 1. All imports from South Africa into Sarawak were pro- hibited. June 12. Imports into the States of Malaya of sugar, molasses, etc. (tariff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500) from all sources, includ- ing Singapore, became subject to quantitative restriction. August 1. Imports into Singapore of monosodium glutamate from all sources were prohibited. August 1. The import of rice into the States of Malaya was made conditional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from official stocks for every ton imported, instead of every two tons imported. August 6. The Exchange Control Ordinance of 1953 of the States of Malaya was extended to apply to Singapore, Sarawak, and Sabah, subject to certain modifications. Exchange control throughout Malay- sia would be administered on behalf of the Malaysian Government by the Central Bank of Malaysia. As a result of the unification of exchange control, residents of Singapore no longer required prior exchange control approval to extend credit for working capital to companies resident in Malaysia that are controlled by nonresidents. 350 MALAYSIA August 25. Imports into Singapore of all goods of Netherlands origin consigned f rom any source (including the other territories of Malaysia) were made subject to specific import license. Licenses would be issued on application, provided that an irrevocable letter of credit was opened within one week and was registered with the Registrar of Imports and Exports. August 27. The import of 46 categories of goods of U.K. origin into Singapore was prohibited. All other goods of U.K. origin were made sub ject to specific import licensing. These measures were rescinded on September 1, when a new order establishing detailed licensing rules for imports f rom the United Kingdom was issued. September 15. All goods of U.K. origin entering Singapore were freed f rom specific import licensing. October 15. The import into Singapore of electric bulbs for domestic lighting from all sources became subject to quantitative restriction. October 24- The Central Government of Malaysia published a preliminary list of 101 commodities to be considered for protective customs duties under the Malaysian Common Market ta r i f f, which would apply to all territories of Malaysia. All customs areas of Malaysia (Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak, and the free ports of Labuan, Penang, and Singapore) imposed specific licensing, and in some cases quantitative restrictions, on a number of these items to prevent speculative importing. October 24. Imports into Singapore of glutamic acid f rom all sources was prohibited. 351 MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. Parity rates for the CFA franc, the French franc, and the U.S. dollar are MF 1, MF 50, and MF 246.853, respectively. Only the Bank of the Republic of Mali is authorized to carry out exchange transactions with the public. Purchases and sales of French francs and CFA francs are made by the Bank of the Republic at their respective parities. The official buying rate for the U.S. dollar is MF 244.50, and the selling rate is MF 245.50; for 16 additional currencies x official buying and selling rates also are fixed. Rates for other currencies are established separately for each operation. Bilateral payments agreements with 18 countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) provide for settlements of transactions covered by these agreements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified currencies; rates for these specified cur- rencies are unitary. The Bank of the Republic is in charge of settlements covered by bilateral payments agreements. Settlements with other countries are made either directly with the countries concerned or through the intermediary of the Paris exchange market. The Bank of the Republic occasionally concludes with foreign banks forward exchange transac- tions on behalf of its customers. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic has sole authority in exchange control matters; it exerts this authority through the Exchange Control Office, one of its departments. None of its exchange control powers has been delegated to any other bank or institution. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation; those for imports of investment goods must be countersigned by the State Ministry of Planning and Economic and Financial Coordination. Unless confirmed by the Bank of the Repub- lic, import licenses do not constitute authorization for making pay- ment for imports. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Lebanese pounds, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 352 MALI A stamp tax is levied on import and export licenses and on applications for financial transfers. The tax is MF 200 for each MF 100,000 or frac t ion the reo f, on amounts up to MF 1 million. On amounts in excess of MF 1 million, the tax is MF 1,000 for each MF 1 million or fraction thereof. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral pay- ments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Algeria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Morocco, Niger, Poland, Senegal, Tunisia, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There are no special prescription of currency regulations applicable to settlements with other countries; settlements with these countries that require individual licenses must be made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Exchange control regulations provide for two categories of non- resident accounts: (1) Free Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Currencies and (2) Nonresident Accounts in Mali Francs. The first category may be credited only with transfers from abroad of convertible currencies; the accounts may be used for all payments in Mali and for transfers abroad subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, which is granted free ly. Transfers between these accounts are free. The second category may be credited with amounts due to nonresidents in Mali francs for rents, capital receipts, etc. Debits f rom these accounts may be made in accordance with the provisions of the exchange control regulations. All operations through these accounts require the approval of the Bank of the Republic. Certain categories of nonresident funds in Mali francs of a capital or other nature are credited to special foreign accounts, which are de facto blocked. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, which are issued in accordance with an annual import pro- gram that provides quotas for each import category. Licenses for imports from bilateral payments agreement countries are valid only for imports f rom those countries. Licenses for imports from other 353 MALI countries may be used to import f rom any of those countries. Licenses are valid for up to six mon ths; however, if the need for a longer period is ju s t i f ied, they may be extended for three months. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enter- prises, among which the Societe Malienne de I'lmport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having monopoly over the import of 11 items.2 The Ministry of Commerce establishes quarterly quotas for each private importer on the basis of coefficients, calculated for each importer by taking into account import fees paid by h im, the number of his employees, and the number of branches operated by him. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limits of the quarterly quotas accorded to him. In addition, private importers may import specified goods under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Payments for imports may be made only when authorized by the Bank of the Republic, the import license being a document required for customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require individual licenses, which are issued on a restricted basis. Payments for expenses incidental to foreign trade are permitted when payment for the basic import transaction is au thor ized, or when the export transaction is permitted. Specified current payments are licensed up to established limits (e.g., percentages of salaries drawn by fore igners). Income and profits f rom nonresident investments in Mali that are granted benefits under the special foreign investment law (see section on Capital, below) may be transferred in accordance with provisions of investment agreements concluded by the Government with indi- v idual nonresident investors. Foreign enterprises operating in Mali that are not granted the benefits of the special foreign investment law may t rans fer abroad only 25 per cent of their income or profits. Residents of Mali may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of MF 3,000 a day for off ic ial or business trips. This daily exchange allowance may be increased to the equivalent of MF 5,000 a day if the increase is jus t if ied by the high cost of living in the country to be visited. In exceptional cases, higher exchange allowances may be granted. 2 Flour, m i lk, salt, sugar, oil, tea, soap, matches, cigarettes, cement, and empty bags; trade in these commodities is reserved for SOMIEX. 354 MALI Nonresidents leaving Mali a f ter a temporary stay may export foreign means of payment up to the amount declared upon entry into the country. They may also exchange Malian currency for foreign currency, provided that they can prove the previous sale of such foreign currency to the Bank of the Republic or to an authorized agent. The export of Malian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require individual licenses in order to assure the repatria- tion of export proceeds. The export of groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for state enterprises. With the exceptions mentioned below, proceeds accruing from exports must be surrendered. At the time the export licenses are issued, exporters are required to make a deposit equal to 10 per cent of the value of the intended exports. Under the EXIC (Exportation-Importation Concomitante) procedure, exporters of cattle and fish may use 50 per cent of their export proceeds for payment for their own imports included in the EXIC list and made through regular official channels. For exports other than products covered by the monopoly of state trading companies, the percentage of retained export proceeds may be as high as 40 per cent. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds accruing from transactions in invisibles must be surren- dered. The import of Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Residents, whether of foreign or Malian nationality, may not make capital transfers on private account. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are permitted to transfer abroad (1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privileges in respect of their salary (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Funds specified under (1) and (2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. 355 MALI Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to t rans fer abroad in ten equal annual installments funds accruing from the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special foreign accounts with the Bank of the Republic bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is transferable. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali francs owned by nonresidents must be used either to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning. Proceeds from the amortiza- tion of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. According to Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privilege status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to nonresident investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Under this law, each foreign investment is treated individually. Preferential investment treatment may permit (1) the transfer of profits during a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of proceeds accruing from the liquidation of an investment or (2) the transfer dur ing a period to be established in each case of amounts that would include the value of investments and profits, the maximum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. In the latter instance, an enterprise becomes the property of the Government without any indemnity, a f ter the established period has lapsed. Changes during 1964 January 16. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Niger. July 1. A stamp tax was levied on import and export licenses and on applications for financial transfers. The tax was MF 200 for each MF 100,000 or fraction thereof, on amounts up to MF 1 million. On amounts in excess of MF 1 million, the tax was MF 1,000 for each MF 1 million or fraction thereof. August 11. The list of commodities that might be imported under the EXIC arrangements was revised; the new list comprised 23 items or groups of items, mostly of an essential nature. 356 MAURITANIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 == 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates result- ing f rom the relation CFAF 1 ~ 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the other currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses and certificates of importation are issued by the Department of Economic Affa irs with the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Mauritania is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with Spain are made through bilateral accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; xThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de rOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 357 MAURITANIA they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. For certain goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license of certificate of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrange- ments (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters are approved freely, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to countries in the French Franc Area; those to other countries are usually subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. However, authorized banks may, with- out prior authorization f rom the Exchange Office, sell foreign exchange for the following categories of invisibles: (1) expenses related to approved commercial transactions, such as transportation, sundry expenses, insurance; (2) various services, e.g., subscriptions, banking charges, rent, fa rm leases, support allowances paid under court deci- sions; (3) tourist travel up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip; and (4) any payment not exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes freely the transfer of profits f rom foreign investments in Mauritania. Repre- sentation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds from EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take 358 MAURITANIA out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Goods that are not liberalized for export to all other countries require a license; those that are liberalized require an exchange commitment, which is subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months from the date of their receipt. Export- ers may, however, retain a specified percentage of export proceeds in special EFAC (Exportation-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own business, for representation and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the .BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Area. Capital Capital movements between Mauritania and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Mauritania and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code (Law 61-122) enacted on June 26, 1961 provides for two kinds of preferential treatment for the establishment of specified companies in Maur i tan ia: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal stability regime. Under the first regime, the proposed investment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made 359 MAURITANIA within a period of up to 2 years, and must provide employment for at least 20 persons. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a specified number of years from duties on the import of certain materials as well as f rom taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, certain companies considered to be of exceptional importance to the development of the country and making a minimum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to Mauritania, was terminated. February 14. A bilateral payments agreement with Spain was signed. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to Mauritania, was terminated. 360 MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is Mexican Pesos 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buying, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rates on December 31, 1964 were Mex$12.49 buying, and Mex$12.49125 selling, per US$1. There are no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with the payments agreement between the Bank of Mexico and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, payments for transactions with Spain are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through a special account. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Payments for imports f rom Spain are recorded through a special account. For a considerable number of items, import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. Applications are screened by a committee composed of importers, private entrepreneurs, and government representatives. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an over-all annual lirnit. Imports of certain goods (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radios and television sets, equipment, machinery, and whisky, wines, and other liquors) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of specified commodities (mainly cotton) of an equivalent value. Imports and exports under this compensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, which levies on the importer a fee of between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the value of 361 MEXICO the import transaction, and turns the fee minus a commission over to the exporter. Exports effected under this system account for approximately 50 per cent of the value of total exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Committee of Public Sector Imports; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Transactions with Spain are recorded through a special account (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of fore ign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Proceeds from invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 On various dates during the year, additions to and removals from the list of items subject to restrictive import licensing were made. November 26. A new customs tariff under the Brussels nomenclature came into effect. 362 MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is Moroccan Dirhams 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French franc is fixed at DH 1.025 per F 1. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it negotiates x and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 were DH 5.0159 buying, and DH 5.0311 selling, per US$1. Trans- actions in clearing dollars under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset their foreign exchange transactions with their private customers. The authorized banks must sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balance of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency in the Paris exchange market. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued either by the Ministry of Commerce or by its provincial delegations; they must be counter- signed by the Moroccan Exchange Office. "Import commitments" for imports from the French Franc Area (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below) require both approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the visa of the Exchange Office unless they are accompanied by a "quota certificate" or an import license. Prescription of Currency Morocco is one of the territories of the French Franc Area. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) Rumania, with which France maintains a payments agreement that applies also to trans- 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 363 MOROCCO actions with Morocco; (3) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agree- ments; 2 and (4) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts ,pf the French Franc Area are made in French f rancs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low ). Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreement accounts established for this purpose.3 Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Imports f rom Rumania must be paid for in French f ranc s; other settlements with Rumania may be made either in French f rancs or through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports from those countries. They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French f rancs (except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. Trans- 2 Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Spain, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. 3 Under the agreement with Cuba, however, 50 per cent of Moroccan payments for imports of raw sugar, and the entire amount of all other payments to Cuba, except those for diplomatic and similar expenditures, are settled in pounds sterling. Under the agreement with the United Arab Republic, the Suez Canal dues are settled in convertible currencies. 364 MOROCCO fers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains its own bilateral payments agreements (see foot- note 2 ), except Spain; they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All trans- actions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by author- ized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement with Spain. 5. Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Rumania. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement in force between France and Rumania, except for payment for imports f rom Rumania. 6. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for sub- scriptions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to bonds with a fixed long-term or short-term yield (i.e., which cannot be redeemed within five years from the date of purchase) issued by a Moroccan entity; for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual licenses. 7. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments There is a list of permitted imports, which is applicable to all countries. Imports of all other commodities are prohibited from all 365 MOROCCO sources. For certain goods on the permitted list, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods f rom any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de contingentement) is required. For all imports, except those made through the post, the import title —import license or "import commitment" (engagement d'importa- tion)—must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. With certain exceptions, an advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value must be made by importers at the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury. For most imports f rom other parts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the transaction must be domiciled at least one month before importation takes place. Import licenses for goods originating outside the French Franc Area must be domiciled within a period of 15 days f rom the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. "Import commitments" for goods f rom the French Franc Area must be domiciled within 15 days af ter their approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Office. The fo l low ing are exempt from the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports financed with U.S. a id; imports f rom countries in the payments agreement group; imports from Senegal; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is refunded when the import has taken place and payment has been made in fu l l, or if the license is not used or the "import commitment" is allowed to expire. Imports f rom other parts of the French Franc Area of petroleum products, oils and fats, cereals, and textile materials require an import license. All private imports f rom the French Franc Area require an "import commitment" signed by the importer and domiciled with an authorized bank at least one month before the actual importation. Unless the goods are at the same time covered by a "quota certificate" or an import license, the "import commitment" must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Office. The authorized banks may make payments freely when an approved "import com- mitment" is domiciled with them. Imports made and settled through postal channels are exempt f rom these requirements. Imports from countries outside the French Franc Area require individual licenses. Commodities imported from countries in the area of convertibility are listed in an annual General Import Program and are divided into two groups: List A, for which import licenses are issued up to the limit of importers' needs, and List L, for which the 366 MOROCCO issue of licenses is limited to the published quotas. Imports from countries in the payments agreement group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation arrangements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import documents. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. Transfer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco is freely permitted if the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and if the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; transfer of other dividends requires approval by the Exchange Office. Some payments are subject to limitations: A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for tourist travel. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 1,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange, other than banknotes, from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. Applications for exchange for business travel must normally be directed to the Exchange Office, which considers each case on its merits. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco. For fam i ly maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. 367 MOROCCO All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. Collection of the proceeds must take place within a maximum period of one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial contract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. Nonresident travelers may bring in DH 100 in Moroccan banknotes, provided that they are not bringing in any foreign exchange. With this exception, the importa- tion of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which must be declared upon entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign- held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to emigrants and repatriates up to DH 35,000 a person, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The Exchange Office may also 368 MOROCCO grant a guarantee of retransfer of investments which are not examined by the Government Commission. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresidents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. All transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Changes during 1964 January 1. Transfers of savings f rom wages, salaries, and profes- sional fees by foreign nationals having their families in Morocco must be made semiannually, at the end of the six-month period in which the income was earned. The first transfers would be made in July 1964. Foreign nationals having their families abroad remained entitled to transfer 50 per cent of their earnings every month; from February 1, 1964 the Exchange Off ice would accept applications for such transfers. January 28. A new trade and payments agreement with Cuba was signed. The Bank of Mococco opened a clearing account in sterling in the name of the National Bank of Cuba. In the period f rom Jan- uary 1, 1964 to May 31, 1964 Morocco would settle 58 per cent of its import payments for sugar in cash sterling and 42 per cent by crediting the clearing account; in the period from June 1, 1964 to May 31, 1965 these payments would be made 50 per cent in sterling and 50 per cent by credit to the clearing account. Exports to Cuba, as well as diplomatic, consular, and similar expenditures of the two Governments, would be settled through the clearing account. February 13. The f u ll amount of the advance import deposits made at authorized banks must be transferred to the Treasury's current account at the Bank of Morocco, instead of 50 per. cent, as previously. February 17. The tourist travel allocation was reduced to DH 200 a calendar year, and the supplementary allocation for travelers passing through Spain was increased to DH 450 a trip. Children under the age of six were no longer entitled to either allocation. Exports of Moroccan banknotes by resident and nonresident travelers were limited to DH 150 a person a trip. March IS. Foreign nationals working in the public sector could freely choose the two months in wh ich to make their semiannual 369 MOROCCO transfers of savings; the supplementary allocation of 100 per cent of their monthly earnings for each month of leave taken, which they could obtain when going abroad on leave, was reduced to 35 per cent for each month of leave taken, subject to a maximum of 105 per cent of their monthly earnings. April 1. The obligation to surrender 50 per cent of the outstanding balance on each EFAC account was applied on a quarterly rather than on a semiannual basis. April 15. Foreign nationals employed in the private sector and entitled to t rans fer semiannually 30 per cent of their earnings could freely choose the two months in wh ich to make the transfers. April 15. The General Import Program for 1964 was published. April 18. Butter, flax, ramie, and certain types of glass were exempted f rom advance deposit requirements. June 3. The tourist travel allocation was rounded to F 200 for those traveling to France. Travelers to Spain were permitted to take up both the regular tourist allocation and the supplementary transit allocation, even when they did not intend to travel to other countries. June 19. Nonresident Internal Accounts were abolished. July 1. Transactions in foreign banknotes between the authorized banks and the public had to be carried out at buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of Morocco; the banks were not permitted to charge any commission. The Bank of Morocco also established separate buying and selling rates for its transactions in foreign bank- notes with the authorized banks. July 1. Tourist Accounts were abolished; balances in existing accounts could be utilized until January 1,1^965. July 24. Dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan com- panies having their main office in Morocco could not without special authorization from the Exchange Office be transferred abroad, unless the shares were quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and the company had obtained the Exchange Office's approval of the amount of the dividend to be distributed. The latter condition was only attached to dividends of business years ended after July 24,1964. October 8. Imports and exports of Moroccan banknotes were prohibited. October 9. The tourist travel allocations were suspended. October 12. Imports from all sources were suspended. The author- ized banks were not permitted to accept domiciliation of "import 370 MOROCCO commitments" for imports from the French Franc Area or of import licenses for imports from other sources. The issuance of "quota certificates" also was suspended. Imports from the French Franc Area by parcel post or by airplane (such imports did not require an "import commitment") were not suspended. October 12. The Bank of Morocco suspended the granting of exchange under import letters of credit. October 14. The banks were permitted to make available to residents of foreign nationality foreign exchange (checks, letters of credit, credits to bank accounts, and banknotes) in exchange for foreign exchange supplied by these foreigners from their own foreign holdings not subject to surrender requirements, provided that the exchange was not supplied in the form of banknotes. Such transactions were permitted up to the equivalent of DH 1,000 a passport a calendar year; higher amounts required special authorization from the Exchange Office. Export of foreign exchange thus acquired must take place within one month from the date of purchase. November 9. A tourist travel allocation equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which could be taken up twice a year in any currency, was established for residents, irrespective of nationality, who held an individual passport. November 20. Imports from the French Franc Area by parcel post or airplane were suspended. November 23. A list of permitted imports applicable to all countries was issued. Items not listed, and consequently prohibited, included fresh meat, fish, vegetables, some fruits, chocolates and candy, perfumes, cosmetics, soap and detergents, footwear, ceramics, clothing, certain textiles, watches and clocks, and domestic electrical appliances. New regulations were issued regarding import procedures applicable to the French Franc Area; all permitted imports from that Area, including those made by airplane or through postal channels, became subject to individual approval. December 15. EFAC accounts, in which exporters could keep part of their export proceeds accruing in currencies other than French Franc Area currencies, were abolished. December 15. Nonresident travelers were permitted to bring in DH 100 in Moroccan banknotes, provided that they did not bring in any foreign exchange. December 25. Imports made and settled through postal channels no longer required an "import commitment" or the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Office. 371 NEPAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the Nepalese Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate of exchange vis-a-vis the Indian rupee is NRs 160 = Rs 100, giving a relationship of approximately NRs 7.619 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees; but where other currencies are involved, the rates are based on the above relationship and the exchange rate for the other currency concerned against the Indian rupee. On December 31, 1964, the rate for the U.S. dollar was NRs 7.60 buying, NRs 7.68 selling, per US$1. Exporters are granted exchange entitle- ments corresponding to specified proportions of their export earnings in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). The entitlements are freely trans- ferable.1 Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank and several ministries, prepares a foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, * except payments for certain specified invisibles that require authorization f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank and all payments to India made in Nepalese or Indian rupees. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. All export and import transactions must be made through the Nepal Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing pay- ments, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank —in practice mostly Indian rupees, sterling, or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other coun- tries must be received in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Nepal has a trade and payments agreement with Pakistan and a provisional payments arrangement with Mainland China. 1 The entitlements ceased to be transferable on March 12,1965. 372 NEPAL Imports and import Payments All imports of goods except those of Indian origin require import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, bee f, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and .Transit Treaty of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities sub- ject to excise duty in India benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports f rom countries other than India are considered on their merits; an application must, how- ever, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget and its list of commodities. Exporters entitled to import goods with export- ers' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ); they may obtain licenses also for all goods not included in the foreign exchange budget. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian or Nepalese rupees. Payments to other countries for invisibles related to com- mercial transactions are usually au tho r ized; payments for f re ight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import pay- ments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, for- eign exchange is allowed up to the equivalent of US$1,000; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essenti- ality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out free ly to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals on ly; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, bu f fa los, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. 373 NEPAL The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally per- mitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, petrol, cement, iron bars, and packaged foods tuffs are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be declared and surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank. The exporter receives f rom the Ministry of Finance an exporters' exchange entitle- ment corresponding to a specified proportion of his export proceeds in fore ign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement, which is freely transferab le, may be used to obtain exchange at the off ic ial rate for any type of import, whether included in the fore ign exchange budget or not. Exporters engaged in barter trade are granted entitlements cor- responding to 40 per cent of their export earnings; the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities. Other exporters of "general exports" receive entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of raw ju te and musk, 50 per cent of those f rom exports of ju te manu fac tu res, and 60 per cent of those f rom exports of all other goods. Industries not incur- ring heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements cor- responding to 30 per cent of their export proceeds, while industries incurr ing heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements for the fo l low ing percentages of export earnings du r ing the preceding yea r: 60 per cent of export earnings of NRs 2 million or less; 70 per cent of export earnings over NRs 2 million but not in excess of NRs 4 mil- l ion; 80 per cent of earnings over NRs 4 million but not in excess of NRs 6 m i l l ion; and 85 per cent of earnings over NRs 6 million. The corresponding percentages for industries exporting raw ju te and ju te manu fac tu res are 55 per cent, 65 per cent, 75 per cent, and 80 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in freely from India by Nepalese and Ind ian na t iona ls; the import of these currencies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. 374 NEPAL Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited f rom making any type of investment in foreign countries except investments specifi- cally exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of at least 10 per cent of the capital invested and, in any one year, up to 25 per cent of the principal. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by foreign interests. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement with the United States. Changes during 1964 February 12. Nepalese and Indian nationals could bring in freely, or import through the mail, any amount of Nepalese and Indian banknotes and coins f rom India. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals were not allowed to bring in, or import through the mail, Nepalese or Indian banknotes and coins from India. All imports of Nepalese and Indian banknotes and coins f rom countries other than India were prohibited. March 30. Nepalese residents and foreigners engaged in business in Nepal were required to declare their holdings of foreign currencies other than Indian rupees and their holdings of fixed assets earning foreign exchange other than Indian rupees. May 11. Only Nepalese and Indian nationals could take out or export through the mail Nepalese and Indian banknotes and coins to India. The export of Nepalese and Indian banknotes and coins to countries other than India was prohibited. July 15. The proportions of export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees for which exporters of "general exports" were granted exporters' exchange entitlements were revised. Export- ers engaged in barter trade were required to utilize 60 per cent of their export earnings to import commodities specified by the Govern- ment; they were granted an entitlement corresponding to 40 per cent of their export earnings. Exporters were granted an entitlement corresponding to 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of raw ju te and musk; 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of ju te manu fac tu res; and 60 per cent of the proceeds from exports of any 375 NEPAL other commodity. Exporters' exchange entitlements became freely transferable. August 16. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act of 1962 was enforced in five additional areas of the country. The Act prohibits transactions in foreign currencies by persons other than license holders, except with prior permission f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank. August 23. All Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, were prohibited f rom making any type of investment in foreign countries, except for those investments that would be specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette. November 9. The proportions of export proceeds in foreign cur- rencies other than Indian rupees for which industrial exporters were granted exchange entitlements were revised. Industries not incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures were granted exchange entitle- ments corresponding to 30 per cent of their export proceeds. Industries incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures received entitlements for 60, 70, 80, or 85 per cent of their export proceeds, depending on the total amount of export earnings in the preceding year; the corre- sponding percentages for industries exporting raw ju te and ju te manu- factures were 55, 65, 75, and 80 per cent. 376 NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.62 = US$1. The official limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits that result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Au thor ized banks are permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies 1 and to sell inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward for up to 12 months' delivery, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts. Forward exchange contracts by authorized banks for more than 12 months require individual licenses, which are granted freely. The authorized banks may also purchase inconvertible currencies f rom banks abroad against any foreign currency or guilders on a Convertible Guilder Account or a Bilateral Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e l ow ), provided that the amounts bought are used for current payments. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for up to 12 months' delivery with authorized banks. Foreign exchange related to transactions in securities (see section on Capital, below) is traded in a spot market at f ree rates that are, in practice, very close to the official market rates. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3; and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with wh ich payments agreements are in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. 1 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 377 NETHERLANDS Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i rs, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Practically all commercial banks are authorized to hand le foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts f rom countries in this area must be obtained in the convertible currencies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e l ow ); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies provided that the amounts received are deposited with an authorized bank and are only used for current transactions. Transactions with Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of a banking institution of the country concerned; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 2 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents 2 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia or Rumania are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. 378 NETHERLANDS of the Netherlands to residents of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds f rom the sale of gold or convertible currencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. These accounts are held exclusively by bank ing institutions established in Indonesia and the U.S.S.R., and are used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the respective country. They may be credited with transfers f rom any Convertible Guilder Account or f rom another Bilateral Guilder Account of the same country, and with proceeds f rom the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. They may be debited for t rans fe rs to another Bilateral Gu i lder Account related to the same country. 3. K Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents, regardless of nationality. Balances on K Accounts may be used only for payments directly resulting f rom transactions in securities. K Accounts may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers f rom Convertible Guilder Accounts or with funds which may be credited to Convertible Guilder Accounts, with transfers f rom other K Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign and domestic securities. K Accounts may be debited for purchases of foreign and domestic securities, for transfers to any other K Account, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Convertible currencies acquired in this manner must be obtained by debiting a resident's "reinvestment" account (in wh ich are held the foreign exchange proceeds in convertible currencies of residents' sales of foreign securities to nonresidents). Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for imports f rom the Sino-Soviet area, Hong Kong> and Japan, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number- of products mainly from the agrarian sector; practically all imports which require an import license are free f rom quantitative restriction. Payments for imports'may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. 379 NETHERLANDS Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided up to the coun terva lue in the appropriate currency of f. 3,000 for tr ips lasting up to two weeks, and the entire allowance may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. For longer visits, exchange equivalent to f. 150 a day will be provided for f u r t h er periods up to 75 days, mak ing an additional allowance of f. 11,250 a person. A resident traveler abroad may have, in addition to the aforemen t ioned amounts, the equivalent of f. 1,500 remitted to him through bank ing channels. Amounts in excess of these limits are granted by the Ne ther lands Bank unless unau thor ized capital outflow seems to be involved. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted free ly by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unu t i l ized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins wh ich they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by draw ing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory; but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds is obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. For settlement in guilders of incom ing exchange exceeding f. 500 derived f rom current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unu t i l ized portion of the banknotes and coins which they were entitled to take with them on their outward journey. 380 NETHERLANDS Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign- owned capital within the Netherlands f rom one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transaction. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances f rom estates devolving in the Netherlands. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted, if made in convertible currencies. All authorized capital transactions, other than transactions in securities, take place at the official exchange market rates. All payments for transactions in securities are channeled through a free market, where payments and receipts must be either in guilders through K Accounts or in convertible currencies through "reinvestment" accounts (see below). In addition, nonresidents may debit their Convertible Guilder Accounts to pay residents for transactions in securities. Residents may buy foreign securities f rom, or sell them to, other residents. Residents may sell securities abroad against any foreign currency. The exchange so acquired must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. If convertible currencies are acquired, a "reinvest- ment" account may be credited. Balances in "reinvestment" accounts ("security dollars") may be used to buy securities officially quoted either in the Netherlands or abroad. Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them, except securities held in W-deposits (see footnote 2 ). Emigrants may avail themselves of the same facilities as travelers (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above), i.e., export up to f. 14,250 for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may then have remitted to them the total of their assets in the Netherlands. Changes during 1964 July 1. Imports from all sources of stearic acid, oleic acid, and a few other items were freed from quantitative restriction. August 1. The foreign liabilities of authorized banks were not permitted to exceed their foreign claims by more than f. 5 million unless specific approval was obtained f rom the Netherlands Bank. 381 NETHERLANDS In calculating their liabilities and claims, amounts in both guilders and foreign currencies would be taken into account. September 1. New regulations regarding the granting and raising of short-term credits abroad by authorized banks were introduced. (1) The maximum period for which the authorized banks might receive guilder deposits f rom nonresidents, as well as the maximum period for which the authorized banks might place on deposit their balances on "nostro account" in convertible currencies, was extended from 6 to 12 months. (2) The authorized banks were permitted to grant loans to foreign banks up to a maximum period of 12 months, regardless of the underlying transactions. (Previously, the granting of such loans was only allowed for the financing of commercial transactions.) (3) The authorized banks were permitted to accept deposits in convertible currencies up to a maximum of 12 months. (Previously, this possibility existed only for a restricted number of banks, and in most cases for a maximum period of 6 months.) October 21. The Netherlands ceased to invoke the provisions of Article XXXV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade with regard to Japan. 382 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Antilles Guilders 1.88585 = US$1, Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (mainly Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide fore ign exchange for practically all current transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of certain luxury goods. These licenses must be obtained f rom the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for five months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fu r ther three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remit- tances for fam i ly maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the authorized banks. For payments representing interest on loans or net income f rom other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. 383 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by industrial companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring with them checks or letters of credit in Netherlands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in fore ign currency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. New industrial companies relying primarily on exports may be granted nonresident status. Such status confers on the company concerned f u ll exemption f rom exchange control except in its transactions with residents of the Netherlands Antilles. L i fe insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance companies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount wh ich is fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1964, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a person). Investments by individual residents in officially quoted fore ign securities are licensed free ly up to amounts fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position. In considering applications by other residents for such investments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Changes during 1964 September 1. The amounts that individual residents were allowed to invest in officially quoted foreign securities were reduced. October 1. The Treaty of Association with the European Economic Community entered into force. 384 NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is New Zealand Pound 1 = US$2.7809. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic t r an s f e r s ): £NZ 100/7/6 buying, and £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £ stg. 100. Except for the Australian pound, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commerc ia l) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 was US$2.7856 buying, and US$2.7541 selling, per £NZ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange transactions for up to six months to cover genuine trade transactions. These fo rwa rd transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for fo rwa rd sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by Vio °f 1 Per cen^ a month for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand pounds. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling f rom an External Account, in any specified currency,1 or in any other currency freely exchangeable for sterling. xThe specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 385 NEW ZEALAND The accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may also be used for the settlement of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The New Zealand exchange control regulations do not provide for special treatment for the accounts of residents of other countries. However, the accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and f rom New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, wh ich groups imports into d i f fe rent categories to which various import procedures are applied. The import categories included in the Schedule for Ju ly 1, 1964-June 30, 1965, as revised, are as fo l lows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, and printed books wh ich may be imported w i thout license. Category "A" goods are initially licensed up to 75 per cent of the 1963-64 import licenses, with provision for fu r ther licenses against actual needs. A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an ind iv idual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availability, and price. Category "D" includes items for wh ich licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued for certain approved classes of goods, imports of wh ich are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals holding certain overseas funds are permitted to import goods for their own personal use under "no-remittance import licenses." Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. Under an extension of this arrangement, specified overseas funds owned by private individuals and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commercial imports of motorcars and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that 20 per cent of the applicant's funds that qua l i fy under the scheme be repatriated through the banking system. 386 NEW ZEALAND Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of ju s t i fy ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve B ank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by jus t i fy ing documents. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to £NZ 600 for each adult in any period of 12 months ( the allowance being calculated on the basis of £NZ 6 a day for each day spent on land) and of up to £NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (the daily allowance being £NZ 4/4/-). An additional amount of up to £NZ 400 (£NZ 280 for children) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding five years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course, of business, but each remittance requires approval and new commitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to £NZ 50 a remittor. Travelers to the United Kingdom may take with them up to £NZ 15 in New Zealand currency, of which £NZ 5 may be in coins; for travelers to any other country, the limit is £NZ 7, of which £NZ 2 may be in coins. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than £NZ1. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export proceeds will be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). 387 NEW ZEALAND Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents ( inc lud ing corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,2 such assets of their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded f rom this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a fo rm other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency be fo re the surrender takes place. The disposal by New Zealand residents of fore ign income f rom other invisibles is free of control except for non-sterling currencies and securities wh ich, unless transferred to New Zealand through the banking system, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and local currency. Foreign banks are permitted to remit for exchange, within certain limits, New Zealand banknotes and coins purchased by them f rom New Zealand travelers. Capital There is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, inc lud ing capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, a f ter the fo rmal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct invest- ment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any o f fer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offeror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within two weeks of registration the Minister of Finance must no t i fy the 2 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whe ther actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, arrange- ment, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 388 NEW ZEALAND offerer as to whether or not the o f fer is to be considered fu r the r. If fu r ther consideration is to be given, the Minister must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Remittances on account of legacies up to £NZ 750 f rom the estate of a New Zealand resident in any 12-month period are approved by the trad ing banks. Remittances of legacies for larger amounts and all other ou tward capital remittances require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand residents require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Changes during 1964 April 20. The Import Licensing Schedule for the 1964-65 licensing period was announced. The total value of licenses available was somewhat less than the value of licenses provided for under the original 1963-64 Import Licensing Schedule. Except for the "A" cate- gory, all categories for which licenses are issued were affected by the reduction. Five items, however, were added to the "E" category of imports, which were exempt f rom the licensing requirement. October 7. A review of the 1964-65 Import Licensing Schedule was announced. Licenses for manu fac tu re r s' raw materials would generally be issued up to 100 per cent of the 1963-64 licensing levels. Additional funds were made available to assist in meeting a substantial rise in world prices of nonferrous metals. Ten items were added to the "E" category. October 16. It was announced that overseas assets to be received in fu tu re by New Zealand residents f rom nonresidents as remuneration for work or services performed in New Zealand must be surrendered to the New Zealand banking system in exchange for New Zealand currency. Interest and dividends earned overseas were not affected. If the remuneration were in a form other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it had to be converted into foreign currency before the surrender took place. Remuneration f rom overseas sources fa l l ing within the above regulation and credited or received on or a f ter October 16, 1964 would not be eligible for "no-remittance" import licenses. December 9. The definition of "remuneration" appearing in the exchange control regulations that came into effect on October 16 (see above) was extended to include any benefit, whether by way of the doing of work or the pe r fo rmance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, arrangement, scheme or transaction of any kind (whe ther or not it was enforceable or intended to be enforceable by 389 NEW ZEALAND legal proceedings). For the purpose of the same regulations a nonresi- dent was defined as any person, other than a person domiciled in New Zealand, who would not be deemed to be ordinarily resident in New Zealand for longer than 36 months. December 24. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through purchase or exchange of shares were required to register their bid whenever the investment resulted in control of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within six weeks of registration, the Minister of Finance must no t ify the bidder whether the o f fer is approved or not, and what conditions, if any, are imposed. 390 NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nicaraguan Cordobas 7.00 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at the off ic ial rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange is subject to a stamp tax of % of 1 per cent. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom July 20,1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nicaragua, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange; but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and deter- mining the advance deposits required. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compensation Centro- americana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear are prohibited, except footwear manu- factured in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. 391 NICARAGUA For the purpose of advance deposit requirements, imports are listed in three categories on the basis of essentiality. Items on List I (essentials) are exempt from advance deposit requirements. For items on List II (semiessentials), an advance deposit of 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required, and for items on List III (nonessentials), one of 60 per cent. The deposits must be made in domestic currency and prior to the shipment of the merchandise. The commercial bank that receives the deposit must immediately transfer it to the Central Bank. When the goods reach Nicaragua and the importer makes payment, the deposit at the Central Bank is released. Advance deposits are not required for (1) imports by the Government or autonomous state institutions, (2) imports from the other signatories to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras), and (3) imports for certain investment projects made under an Industrial Development Law. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight draf t, prepayment, or letter of credit. The Central Bank may also authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived f rom properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are goods not subject to the advance deposit requirement, or are capital goods, irrespective of the list in which they have been classified, intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign currency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declara- tion specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963), the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 392 NICARAGUA proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be purchased f rom a bank, with the exception noted in footnote 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or can temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the fo l low ing privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the cap i ta l; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Changes during 1964 June 1. The advance deposit requirement for imports of items on List III (nonessentials) was reduced f rom 100 to 80 per cent. November 16. The advance deposit requirement for imports of items on List III was reduced f rom 80 to 60 per cent. 393 NIGER Exchange Kale System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 — US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 — 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses for nonliberal- ized goods are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs; import certificates for liberalized goods are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Niger is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area except Mali are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Mali are made through an account in CFA francs maintained by the Bank of the Republic of Mali on the books of the BCEAO at Niamey. Settlements with the United Arab Republic are made through a special account under the terms of the payments agreement concluded with that country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Rumania —with which France maintains a payments agreement that applies also to transactions with Niger— through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; with all remaining countries, in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. xThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de I'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 394 NIGER Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than matches and plastic goods may be made freely. Imports of many goods from former OEEC countries, a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada, and certain imports of EEC origin and provenance are liberalized. Other imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are permitted in accordance with the needs of the economy and with Niger's bilateral or multilateral commit- ments. Nonliberalized imports of EEC origin and provenance (except those f rom France) are permitted up to annual quotas which are being increased in accordance with the Convention of Association with the EEC. Imports of nonliberalized goods from other countries outside the French Franc Area are made in accordance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affa irs on the basis of ceilings for individual commodities or groups of commodities that have been established in mutual agreement within a jo int French-Niger Committee. In either case, the quotas opened fix the limits up to which import licenses may be issued. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on a certificate of importation, i.e., a declaration made out by t h e- importer and approved by the Exchange Office. The import licenses or certificates of importation entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters may be issued, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for many other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Residents traveling to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation 395 NIGER of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a year for each person. Any balances of foreign exchange remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered. The transfer of the entire salary of a for- eigner working in Niger is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may, upon presentation of appropriate documents, send to relatives abroad an amount of CFAF 37,500 a month as fam i ly assistance or gifts. Payments for study abroad may also be authorized upon presentation of appropriate documents. Representation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f rancs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all other countries require licenses and a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change) for nonliberalized products, and a foreign exchange commitment for liberalized products. Export proceeds in currencies of countries .outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within one month from the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 10 per cent of their foreign currency proceeds in special, nontransferable, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own businesses, for representation and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad. 396 NIGER Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers from Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Niger and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; capital transfers to all other countries require approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are per- mitted freely. The Investment Code of July 12, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to new enterprises in industry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established: A, B, and C. The most liberal benefits are offered by Regime C, wh ich is applicable to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development plan. This regime is characterized by the signing of a founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) stipu- lating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and the enter- prise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 or 20 years, provides guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a maximum of 10 years. Repatriation of profits f rom, and proceeds f rom the liquidation of, foreign invest- ments are subject to the exchange regulations of the French Franc Area. Firms covered by the Investment Code must undertake not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. Changes during 1964 January 15. A trade and payments agreement with Mali was signed. 397 NIGER January 23. Imports of matches f rom the French Franc Area became subject to quantitative restriction. February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, wh ich was also applicable to trans- actions w i th Niger, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral paymen ts agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Niger, was terminated. March 23. Imports of plastic goods from the French Franc Area became sub ject to quantitative restriction. May 6. Imports of many goods of EEC origin and provenance were liberalized; these included beer, cheese, cereals other than wheat, wine, certain other alcoholic beverages, cast iron, nonferrous metals, and certain chemical products. 398 NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nigerian Pound 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria publishes daily the opening rates for spot dealings in sterling and U.S. do l lars; on December 31, 1964, its rates for the U.S. dollar were $2.801%2 buying, and $2.78 selling, per £N 1. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Authorized dealers may buy any foreign currency for spot delivery. When dealing in currencies other than U.S. dollars, sterling, or any other Sterling Area currencies, authorized dealers normally base the transactions on rates for sterling or U.S. dollars. They may freely sell any Sterling Area currency on a spot basis for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, except that payments to any destination related to the repatriation of capital, to compensation transactions, to the purchase of foreign securities, to the transfer of profits, or to stakes in foo tba ll pools and other betting arrangements require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Authorized dealers may sell spot all other currencies for approved payments. Authorized dealers may enter free ly into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis (see above) and that, where a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is involved, the trans- action relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to f re ight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a fore ign currency. Forward contracts related to imports from countries outside the Sterling Area must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import where the license has no expiration date or no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within six months of shipment, or such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Minister of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and for approving applications for the following: the repatriation of capital and t rans fer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or 399 NIGERIA indirectly f rom outside Nigeria; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of the exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses are authorized by the Minister of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application which does not f a ll w i th in the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Minister of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Nigeria and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except for those transactions for wh ich exchange control approval is requ i red ). Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling or Nigerian pounds f rom an External Account, or in the currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for Nigerian pounds or sterling; an exception is pay- ment for exports of rubber, wh ich must be received in Nigerian pounds f rom an account with an authorized dealer in Nigeria. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into two categories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, main- tained for persons permanently resident in a country within the Sterling Area, and External Accounts, maintained for residents of all other countries. Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers f rom other Scheduled Territories Accounts and from External Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies, i.e., all currencies except Nigerian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for pur- chases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. 400 NIGERIA External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts and to Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies. imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported under open general license. However, the import of about 20 commodities is prohibited for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons, and the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific couditions have been complied w i th; these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Individual specific import licenses are required for the fo l low ing: (1) All imports from Albania, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Ruman ia, South A f r i c a, South West A f r ica, Tibet, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. (2) All imports of petroleum and petro- leum products, gold, gold chloride, and other gold products, cement, tin ore and by-products of tin, cotton blankets, enamelware, meat and meat preparations, butter, and products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ). (3) Imports from Japan and Hong Kong of all textiles, twine and cordage, and fishing nets. (4) Imports of wheat and sugar from countries not participating in the International Wheat and Sugar Agreements. (5) Imports f rom the dollar area of coal, coke, and secondhand clothing. (6) Imports f rom the Nether- lands of onions not grown in a specified region. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports where documentary evidence of importation is available, except for advance payments when the approval of the Central Bank is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly, provided that the underlying transaction does not involve any interest outside the Sterling Area, except that pay- ments to any destination related to profits or to participation in foot- ball pools or other betting arrangements, or which take the fo rm of compensation deals, require approval from the Minister of Finance.1 1 Payments for football pools and betting arrangements are in practice pro- hibited. 401 NIGERIA Payments for invisibles to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to individual approval, but this is granted freely by the authorized dealers for many categories of invisibles. Applications for payments that are not approved by the authorized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval freely provided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, certain applications require approval from the Minister of Finance. Residents going to any country in the Sterling Area may buy unlimited amounts of foreign exchange for travel purposes. For travel outside the Sterling Area, £250 a year in foreign exchange may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell trans- portation tickets and vouchers for certain services (e.g., hotel accom- modations, meals en route) for anywhere in the world against pay- ment in Nigerian currency. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £50 in sterling or Nigerian banknotes. Residents are permitted to take the equivalent of their basic allowance of £250 for travel outside the Sterling Area in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out foreign currency notes and Nigerian banknotes up to the amounts they brought into Nigeria. Exports and Export Proceeds Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any country except South A f r ica and South West A f r ica (exports to these two countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products covered by the Central Marketing Board Ordinance (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kerne ls). The export of certain goods (A f r ican antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, is also prohibited. Export proceeds obtained in specified currencies2 must be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria or in the United Kingdom 2 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 402 NIGERIA within six months f rom the day of shipment. For goods valued at more than £1,000 f.o.b. and destined for a country outside the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may bring in freely foreign and domestic banknotes. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission f rom the Minister of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any country outside Nigeria. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Minister of Finance for "approved status," the granting of wh ich means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of Approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval f rom the Minister of Finance. The permission of the Minister of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria, or (3) by any branch in Nigeria of a nonresident company (other than a b ank ). However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) and (3) to meet temporary shortages of fund s, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not- exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy f rom or sell to nonresidents any security payable in Nigerian pounds. Residents of Nigeria are not obliged to deposit their fore ign securities with banks in Nigeria. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that prior permission of the Minister of Finance is obtained. 403 NIGERIA Changes during 1964 April 9. The system of import regulations was simplified by the introduction of a new open general license permitting the importation without a specific license of virtually all commodities from most coun- tries. Some new items were, however, placed under restriction for protective reasons. April 14. Imports from the Netherlands of onions not grown in a specified region required specific import license. August 3. Customs duties were increased on many imports. 404 NORWAY 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, where required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Commerce. However, import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture for most agricultural goods; export licenses for fish and fish products are issued by the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanu- factured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Practically all payments to and f rom nonresidents must be made through one of the Norwegian authorized banks or through the Bank of Norway. Authorized banks may make payments free ly for imports not requiring an import license and for most invisibles. Payments for goods that require a license must, in general, be approved by the Ministry of Agriculture ( f or most agricultural goods), the Ministry of Commerce ( for other goods ), or the Bank of Norway ( f or precious metals, invisibles, and capital). Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral a r e a2 and the convertible area (all other countries). Settlements with a country in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement. Settlements with countries in the convertible area may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). xln view of the changes which took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 29, 1965. 2 Czechoslovakia and Eastern Germany. 405 NORWAY Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of countries in the convertible area (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area, with transfers f rom other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments f rom the convertible area to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Con- vertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Nonresident-owned capital that may not be transferred abroad is deposited in Capital Accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance premiums, and traveling expenses, as well as for direct investments, upon approval, and for investments in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner only. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with a Norwegian authorized bank or be sent to the owner abroad. Capital which, according to the general rules or specific permission, is transferab le abroad may be credited to a Convertible Krone Account. Jmports and Import Payments Practically all goods may be imported freely f rom the free list area 3 upon presentation of the original invoice. Import licenses are required only for the few items on the list of nonliberalized com- modities,4 which applies to all countries, and for goods on two special lists—one applicable to imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R.; the other applicable to imports f rom Japan, many of which are licensed automatically. Fourteen commodities on the nonliberalized list are also on a global quota list, permitting them to be imported, up to certain limits, f rom any country. Sugar is subject to bilateral quotas, while special- ized and secondhand ships are licensed freely, provided that certain regulations (requiring in principle that such purchases be fu l ly financed by foreign loans with maturities of at least five years from 3 The free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Macao, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. 4 Licenses are also required for imports of liberalized ships (i.e., dry cargo ships) built abroad, in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. 406 NORWAY the date of delivery) are complied w i th. A small number of imports are prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license 'is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments to countries in the convertible area for most invisibles, including income f rom capital and contractual amor- tization, may be obtained freely. Payments for invisibles to a country in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip a person, whether adult or not. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the convertible area, against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). All exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Norwegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit. 407 NORWAY Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by non- residents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward t ran s fe rs of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted free ly, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortiza- tion are also permitted free ly. Norwegian securities purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the t ran s fer of the proceeds f rom the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, g i f ts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made free ly to any member country of the International Monetary Fund. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are sub ject to approval. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than secu- rities, real estate, and other au thor ized investments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct invest- ments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and port- folio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Changes during 1964 January 1. Some commodities (wood charcoal, oakum of true hemp, and oakum of ju t e) were removed f rom the list of nonliberalized imports wh ich applies to all countries and f rom the two special lists applicable to certain Eastern European countries and Japan. January 22. Import licenses were required for all imports f rom Macao; licenses would be granted automatically for all commodities, except cotton sports shirts, work shirts, and cotton nightwear. July 28. G if ts to relatives and emigrants' assets could be trans- ferred freely to OECD countries. August 24. The global quotas were announced for the period Ju ly 1, 1964-June 30, 1965. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. 408 NORWAY NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes became effective early in 1965: January 1. The basic allowance for tourist travel abroad was increased f rom NKr 3,500 a year to NKr 5,000 a trip. January 1. Wood tar, wood tar oil, and wood creosote were freed f rom licensing when imported f rom countries in the free list area or countries to which the two special lists apply. It was announced that sugar would be placed on the free list in the course of 1965. Those foods tuffs, fru i ts, vegetables, and other agricultural commodities that were controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture continued to be subject to license, even when imported f rom the free list area. January 29. The bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. was terminated. 409 PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All trans- actions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of specified currencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. On December 30, 1964, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. 53%2d. selling, per rupee, and on New York they were PRs 4.750 buying, and PRs 4.805 selling, per US$1. Other effective rates arise f rom the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodities. On December 30, 1964, these bonus vouchers were quoted at rates around PRs 146.75 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 30 commercial banks authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Applications for import licenses are submitted through these commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts f rom countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area.1 Receipts from countries outside the 1 However, a part of Pakistan's trade with India is settled through a clearing account in inconvertible Indian rupees under the terms of an agreement with that country. 410 PAKISTAN Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees f rom the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Payments by residents of Pakistan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account (see also foot- note 1). Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghan i- stan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade with Nepal in specified commodities is settled through a clearing account maintained in incon- vertible Pakistan rupees. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Trans- fers frorn^ nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the cor- responding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange control on transactions with India are governed by separate regulations. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses, except goods on the free list and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). A number of imports are prohibited or are not being licensed. An import license may be used in any country of the world, other than Israel or South A f r i c a ,2 except for items for which specific country licenses are issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan 1 Imports from South Africa were prohibited from January 28,1965. 411 PAKISTAN agreements with pa r t icu lar countries. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established commercial importers and industrial consumers and for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. Applications for licenses are not required f rom established importers, and the quantities to be imported by them are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. However, various other import procedures exist for different industries and categories of commodities: (1) The "automatic" licensing procedure allows importers of specified commodities to apply for another license when an earlier license has been fu l ly utilized. In the July-December 1964 shipping period, this procedure was applicable to all items except tractors on the Open General License List in respect of commercial importers and newcomers already admitted for those items. (2) The Open General License procedure, applicable to specified commodities and groups of commercial importers (mostly small ones), provides for the issue of licenses for stated amounts. (3) The industrial licensing procedure allows many specified industries (category A industries) to receive import licenses for their assessed production requirements of items not on the free list; fur ther licenses may be obtained upon presenta- tion of bills of entry corresponding to at least 50 per cent of the value of previous licenses. The remaining industries (category B industries) receive licenses on a specific basis determined by the competent authority. (4) Under the barter arrangements concluded with for- eign governments or with concerns abroad, licenses are issued for specified items. (5) Under the procedure of free imports against the country's own foreign exchange resources and against foreign aid and loans, 51 items were placed on the free list for the shipping period July-December 1964. In most cases, registered importers can open letters of credit for any amount; minimum amounts for letters of credit are established at PRs 50,000 for iron and steel imported under U.S. aid or loans and at PRs 20,000 for other items imported under U.S. aid or loans. Under the Open General License procedure, exporters of specified commodities are eligible for special import licensing facilities related to export performance; under the industrial licensing procedure, almost all manu fac tu re rs who are also exporters are eligible for such special facilities. Import licenses are also issued under the Export Bonus Scheme. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within a month (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer 412 PAKISTAN having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 months f rom the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized dealer. The license holder may make pay- ment by opening a letter of credit or by remitting a sight draf t. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and .other capital goods for wh ich deposits have to be made with foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regu- lations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Separate regulations govern payments to India and Burma for such purposes as family maintenance. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid ship- ments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Tourist travel is restricted to a limited number of persons a month (and to one trip every three years for any one person) for each specified geographic area, but there is an annual allowance for pilgrims to Saudi Arabia. Exchange for business travel, medical treatment, students' expenses, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. All Pakistani nationals may, once a year, receive up to £ stg. 300 for travel against the surrender of a corresponding amount of bonus vouchers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. 413 PAKISTAN Residents may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes at any one time and, if leaving for Afghanistan, any amount of A fghan currency. Individual permission is required for the export of other currencies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accord- ance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. After making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds from India within two months and from other sources within four months. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than the following ma jor items: raw jute; raw cotton; hides and skins, including lambskins but excluding furs and reptile skins; wool, including wool waste; rice, excluding superior varieties (namely, basmati, parmel, and begmi); and tea. Af ter surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other primary products, by-products, semimanufactured goods, including unfinished cotton piece goods, and manufactured goods involving a simple manufacturing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 30. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 45 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are generally not otherwise licensed for importation.3 8 Half the vouchers earned by the ju te manufacturing industry may be used for imports of machinery and spare parts for the ju te industry and other industries in East Pakistan only. 414 PAKISTAN Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A fghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Pakistanis who are either employed or carrying on business abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to their relatives in Pakistan; earners of foreign exchange from certain services (a i rc ra ft repairs, salvage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of their exchange earnings. The vouchers recorded in all cases are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their earnings from foreign tourists for board and lodging for a number of items required by the hotel industry. The fac i l i ty of the Bonus Scheme applies also to Indus Basin contracts; all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earned from machinery items and 20 per cent from all other supplies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas ( f rom India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Gov- ernment follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original invest- ment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested 415 PAKISTAN in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities will be subject to the exchange control regulations in force at the time, and they will not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1,1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the capital, in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their invest- ments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are, in general, not per- mitted. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to wh ich the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals, other than Indian nationals, are permitted to sell foreign securities upon approval by the State Bank, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds resulting f rom such sales are surrendered, but there is no provision for purchases of foreign securities by residents. In this connection, foreigners residing in Pakistan are considered nonresidents. Exports of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing f rom the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. Changes during 1964 During the first ha lf of 1964, the regulations concerning the Export Bonus Scheme were modified on several occasions. January 1. Certain imports f rom the United States financed with U.S. aid were liberalized. The free list contained the following com- modities: iron and steel billets, tin plate, pig iron, and strips. June 12. The Export Bonus Scheme was greatly simplified. Bonus vouchers would be issued either for 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the net exchange surrendered; previously, there was a range of bonus 416 PAKISTAN percentages. The 20 per cent bonus became applicable to all exports wh ich until June 12 had been eligible for bonuses of 20 per cent or less; the 30 per cent bonus was applied to all other exports previously covered by the Export Bonus Scheme. The list of commodities importable against bonus vouchers was revised in such a manner that imports of virtually all goods also licensed outside the Bonus Scheme were no longer eligible for importation against bonus vouchers. July 1. Imports were fu r ther liberalized. The number of items on the f ree list was increased to 51 for the July-December 1964 shipping period. Most of these items were liberalized for all sources or for the United States only, and some for specified single countries other than the United States. Dur ing the July-December 1964 shipping period, industrial and commercial exporters could obtain additional import licenses on the basis of their export performance. July 25. In accordance with a new agreement with India, some import and export transactions were hencefor th to be settled through a bilateral account in inconvertible Indian rupees. November 1. The limit on monthly remittances by foreign nationals for the maintenance of their dependents in their home country was raised f rom £ stg. 100 to £ stg. 150. November 4- Exports to South Afr ica were prohibited. 417 PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Panamanian Balboa 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate f ree ly in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3. and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Off ice, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. This Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agr icu l ture Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing applies mainly to imports of foods tu f fs. Quotas are imposed on imports of 95 commodities competing with domestic production. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any fo rm, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on wh ich export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on the following: gold, silver, and p la t inum; manganese; other minerals; bananas; coconuts; scrap metals; pearls; animal w ax; nispero gum; ipecac root; and rubber. Exports of wheat Hour, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. 418 PANAMA Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 419 PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Paraguayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place at free market rates, which since October 1960 have been (5 123.60 buying, and 0 126.00 selling, per US$1. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0 125.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through the commercial banks, except those related to government payments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. The making available of foreign exchange by the banks has at times been subject to delay. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are temporarily prohibited.1 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for a minimum of 120 days, or if the deposit is made af ter the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempted commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for govern- ment imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organizations, imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, certain Spanish goods imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Paraguay, and imports f rom LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import 1 These include sugar, portland cement, hides, potatoes, onions, garlic, and matches. 420 PARAGUAY surcharge of 28 per cent applies to most general imports. Petroleum products are subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent when imported f rom Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, or Uruguay, and to a surcharge of 15 per cent when imported from other countries. Wheat imports from coun- tries other than Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay are subject to a surcharge of 19 per cent. Imports of construction material are sub ject to an additional charge of 1 per cent. These surcharges are collected by the banks either at the time the import remittance is made or at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clear- ance, wh ichever is the earlier. The following are exempt f rom sur- charge: imports for the Government, for diplomats, and for certain international organ iza t ions; wheat imports f rom Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Paraguay; and imports f rom LAFTA countries of certain items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval f rom the Central Bank. In principle, exchange is free ly available to pay for all imports, but in practice there may be a delay in the actual making available of such exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic sup- plies. The proceeds of exports must be collected and the exchange sold to a commercial bank. With the exception of a number of agricultural and forestry products, exports are subject to a tax in guaranies of 7l/2 per cent of the value of the goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements imposed on exchange payments f o r, or exchange receipts f rom, invisibles, but the making available of exchange for such payments may at times be subject to delay. Capital There are no requirements imposed on capital receipts or payments by either residents or nonresidents, but the making available of exchange for capital payments may at times be sub ject to delay. Changes during 1964 February 21. The ban on the import of potatoes and onions was rescinded. 421 PARAGUAY July 15. The Central Bank was authorized to require banks to surrender daily up to 35 per cent of their convertible foreign exchange receipts, in addition to the existing requirement that com- mercial banks transfer to the petroleum companies 15 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts to provide exchange for the import of petroleum fuel and petroleum products. Under this au thor i ty, the Central Bank notified the banks that they would have to surrender 30 per cent of daily receipts in convertible exchange. September 14. The import of potatoes was temporarily prohibited. October 5. The import surcharge of 24 per cent of the c . i .f. value levied on most general imports was levied also on imports f rom neighboring countries; imports f rom Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay previously were exempt f rom surcharges. October 5. A surcharge of 10 per cent was imposed on imports of petroleum f rom Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay. October 9. The import of onions was temporarily prohibited. October 16. The Central Bank established at 25 per cent the proportion of daily receipts in convertible exchange that the com- mercial banks had to surrender to the Central Bank in addition to the 15 per cent of receipts transferred by the banks to the petroleum companies for imports of petroleum fuel and petroleum products. October 28. The import of garlic was temporarily prohibited. October 29. Decree Law No. 374 established an additional import surcharge of 4 per cent on all imports except wheat, wheat flour, petroleum fue ls, and imports f rom LAFTA countries of products included in the Paraguayan concession list. 422 PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sole was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are settled through the exchange market, in which the rate on December 31, 1964 was S/. 26.82 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted free ly, except imports f rom Eastern Europe (excluding Czechoslovakia) and Mainland China. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean fre ight charges is levied on goods imported by sea. Exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely in the exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 February 29. By Law No. 14920 an additional surcharge of 3 per cent ad valorem was imposed on most imports; in addition, the sales tax of 4 per cent or 8 per cent on imported luxury items was replaced by an 8 per cent surcharge on the c.i.f. value. 423 PERU March 23. By Law No. 14986 a surcharge of 18 per cent ad valorem was imposed on the import of motor vehicles other than commercial vehicles, buses, and taxis; this surcharge replaced the 8 per cent sales tax to which these items were previously subject. August 20. A customs tariff under the Brussels nomenclature came into e f f e c t; the customs surcharges previously in force were incorporated in the customs duties. 424 PHILIPPINES 1 Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Philippine Pesos 2.00 = US$1. A free market rate applies to all exchange payments and to all receipts other than 20 per cent of proceeds f rom ma jor exports. To this 20 per cent the par value rate of F2.00 per US$1 applies, resulting in a mixed rate of approximately P 3.51 per US$1 for total proceeds from exports not listed as minor exports. On January 5, 1965, the free market rates were P 3.89 buying, and P 3.91 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The few remaining exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of the Philippines. The Central Bank may issue circulars and directives to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of advance deposit requirements, which apply to less essential commodities, and the prohibition of certain agricul- tural imports for protective reasons, there are no restrictions on imports. Before goods can be cleared through the customs, the importer must present a release certificate issued by the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank to show that any required advance deposit (referred to as a "special time deposit") has been paid. The percentages of advance deposits required vary according to the degree of essentiality of the imports, viz., 25 per cent for semiessential producer goods; 75 per cent for nonessential producer goods and semiessential consumer goods; and 100 per cent for nonessential consumer goods and unclassified items. The advance deposit and release certificate requirements apply both to imports covered by letters of credit opened by the banks and to "no-dollar" imports (imports financed by importers' own exchange or not involving payments from the Philip- 1 In view of the change that took place on January 5, 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 425 PHILIPPINES p ines), the only exceptions being imports by government agencies, imports under the U.S. aid program, imports by local industries of raw materials to be used in their own operations, goods imported as Japanese war reparations and certified as such by the Reparations Commission, and certain other imports not intended for resale. Advance deposits must accompany the import letter of credit or, for "no-dollar" imports, be made to the agent bank before it issues a release certificate; they must be maintained for at least 120 days with banks, wh ich in turn must keep 100 per cent of these amounts with the Central Bank, in cash or in the form of government notes, securities, or bonds. Imports not subject to the advance deposit requirements may be financed by means of documents against pay- ment or documents against acceptances not exceeding 90 days for importers, or 120 days for producers. Imports of raw material requirements by local industries may be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand d ra f t, telegraphic transfer, or mail transfer within 120 days after the issuance of the release certificate by the authorized agent bank concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and eco- nomic development are prohibited. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d r a ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Twenty per cent of the proceeds from exports, other than minor exports with an average annual value in 1962 and 1963 of less than US$2 million, must be surrendered to the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank at the official par value, the remaining 80 per cent is retained by the authorized bank for sale at the free market rate. Proceeds f rom minor exports are surrendered at the free market rate. 426 PHILIPPINES Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may either be retained by the recipient or sold by him in the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Capital There are no restrictions on capital movements. The banks may request applicants for exchange for capital transfers to complete a special fo rm prescribed by the Central Bank. Changes during 1964 December L The requirement that 20 per cent of export proceeds be surrendered at the par value rate was abolished for proceeds from minor exports, i.e., items with an average annual export value during 1962 and 1963 of less than US$2 million. The fu ll proceeds from minor exports were henceforth to be surrendered at the free market rate. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1965: January 5. Goods imported as Japanese war reparations and certi- fied as such by the Reparations Commission were exempted from advance deposit and release certificate requirements. 427 PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is Portuguese Escudos 28.75 = US$1. Transactions in pounds sterling with the pub l ic by the Bank of Portugal and author- ized banks take place at fixed exchange rates of Esc 80.17 buying, and Esc 80.83 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other quoted currencies l are based on these buying and selling rates for the pound sterling and on the exchange rate of the quoted currency in London. For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U.S. do l lar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" and fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own accoun t; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies and to obtain short-term credits abroad. There is no fo rwa rd exchange market in operation in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter into fo rwa rd transactions with ind iv idual customers. The exchange rates for these transactions may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are for the most part applied un i fo rm ly throughout the Area, and current payments between the various territories are made freely through multilateral clearing accounts. 1The quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Czechoslovakia, East- ern Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, and the United Arab Republic. Settle- ments with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. In addition, there is a special arrangement w i th the Chilean Government which provides that an account in Portuguese escudos be kept in a Portuguese commer- cial bank; this account is credited with payments for Portuguese imports of nitrates and debited with payments for Chilean imports from Portugal. 428 PORTUGAL Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade control; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Depart- ment for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the Directorate- General's off ice. Licenses for imports of certain goods are issued by professional associations. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral paymen ts agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars, escudos, or the currency of the partner country. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for wh ich the open- ing, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authoriza- tion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that cur- rency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the fore ign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal, and (c) t rans fe rs between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the fo rm of overdrafts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. For periods longer than one year, authorization 429 PORTUGAL is required from the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance with the agreement of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade frauds. Any physical or jur id ical entity may be an importer, the only requirement being that the importer pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. In exceptional cases, a registration procedure is applied, for payment control purposes. Controls are also exercised to ensure that goods originating in Soviet bloc countries do not enter Portugal via Macao. Certain products, such as sugar, cotton, some oilseed products, and a few other goods may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Practically all imports from outside the Portuguese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantita- tive restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equiva- lent to an import license. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list comprises about 61 tariff items, and includes certain foodstuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a number of finished products, including vehicles and equipment. The liberalization does not apply, however, to Ghana, India, Japan, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported f rom other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global quotas or under individual author- 430 PORTUGAL ization. There are, in addition, global quotas for certain imports from EFTA countries. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through authorized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also free of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures which d iffer in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely for the various transactions. For payments to countries with wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of foreign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 per capita and per annum for tourism; and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisi- bles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above- mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin so long as they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign exchange indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining 431 PORTUGAL to exports, f rom the total amount of the export proceeds subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments for invisibles f rom residents of countries with wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements. Also, payments f rom residents of countries with which Portugal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other payments for invisibles require authorization of the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses. However, authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in foreign currencies. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transaction, however, authorization to export f rom Portugal (and to import into the over- seas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries (excluding credits with a term of one year or less) are subject to the prior authorization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; and for transactions exceeding Esc 10 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Moreover, before granting an authorization, the Inspectorate-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal as to the monetary and foreign exchange aspects of the transaction involved. Foreign investments in Portugal f rom OECD countries are author- ized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for the country's development. In certain branches of the economy, how- ever, foreign investment may not exceed 40 per cent of the total capital of the enterprise in which the investment is made. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment 432 PORTUGAL which originated in an inward capital movement from OECD countries is authorized. Foreign credits and loans f rom OECD countries with a maturity of one to five years are authorized if they are related to a commercial transaction in which a Portuguese resident participates; the repayment of such credits and loans is also authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not con- sidered necessary fo'r the national economic development. In practice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also t rans fer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in fore ign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized f ree ly; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or f rom Portugal is involved, a prior authoriza- tion is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized up to Esc 100,000 annually. Transfers by nationals of OECD countries who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a f am i ly when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are authorized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inheritances, and dowries exceeding this amount, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of the death. Gifts to relatives resident in OECD countries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 20,000 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insurance policies are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when the policy has been taken out in Portugal and when a resident in another OECD country has been authorized to transfer to Portugal the value of the cor- responding prem ium. 433 PORTUGAL Capital movements and transfers of assets not enumerated in the preceding paragraphs and involving countries other than those men- tioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 434 RHODESIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Rhodesian Pound 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland stands ready in transactions with authorized banks to buy and sell Rhodesian pounds against sterling at par, subject to a small commission. The authorized banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. As at December 31, 1964, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.81 V4 buying, US$2.78% selling, per £R 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Rhodesia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Rhodesian pounds, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Rhodesia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or in Rhodesian pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling or in Rhodesian pounds from an External Account, or in any currency freely exchange- able for sterling. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Rhodesian pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of other Sterling 1This territory formed part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, which was dissolved on December 31, 1963. The common monetary area will be dissolved on June 1,1965. In the interim, the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland will continue to exercise administrative authority over exchange control matters in each of the three successor territories, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia. The functions exercised by Federal Ministries in relation to the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland Act and the Exchange Control Acts prior to the dissolution of the Federation will be discharged by a committee appointed by the three territories during the interim period until the common monetary area also is dissolved. 435 RHODESIA Area currencies, with authorized payments by residents, and with transfers f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted free ly into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Malawi or Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Rhodesian pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of fore ign currency from authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments For some items, import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin.2 All other goods originating in the Sterling Area may be imported free of license or, if originating in certain other countries,3 may be imported freely under an open general license. Certain petroleum products and a few other items regardless of the country of origin, and imports of specified commodities of Japanese origin, may also be imported under an open general license. For all other imports, individual licenses are required. Certain new (military type) clothing and used clothing are subject to annual quotas. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the 2 Certain agricultural products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, bags made of ju te fiber, sugar, wheaten flour, white phosphorous matches, flick knives, secondhand accounting machines, certain timbers originating in Africa, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, wild animals, and live fish. 8 Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, and Vatican City. 436 RHODESIA commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £R 10 a day for an adult and £R 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age. The allowance is cumulative up to a maximum of £R 900 for an adult and £R 450 for a child. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Travelers may not, without permission, take out more than £R 20 in Rhodesian currency notes and in the notes of Malawi and Zambia, and the equivalent of £R 10 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported f ree ly; but certain commodities are subject to licensing, mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.4 Export proceeds in foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than the equivalent of £R 20 in Rhodesian currency notes and in the notes of Malawi and Zambia may be brought in. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their invest- ments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original invest- ment was made with funds brought into the country f rom external sources. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the 4 Implements of war, ju te and jute products, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, flick knives, and certain agricultural and animal products. 437 RHODESIA securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of the subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned f rom these invest- ments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over who were self-employed and are leaving on retirement, or those qua l ify ing for a pension in terms of their contract of employment, are allowed £R 7,500. Annual transfers thereafter are based on the emigrant's marital and family status, the maximum allowance being £R 4,000. (2) Married persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed £R 3,000 on departure, together with £R 250 for each child, up to a maximum of £R 4,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers equal to the original allowance are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed £R 1,500 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of £R 1,500. Changes during 1964 November 30. A trade agreement with South Africa was signed under which mutual tariff preferences were increased on a large number of items (including foodstuffs, cotton or woolen piece goods, and various manu fac tu re s ). 438 RWANDA1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Rwanda has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency, issued by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central b a n k ), is the Rwanda f r an c, which is at par with the Belgian f ranc, giving the relationship of RF 50.00 = US$1. Off ic ial buying and selling rates are fixed daily by the central bank on the basis of rates quoted in Brussels. The official buying rate applies to all export proceeds and to certain receipts f rom invisibles, including embassy expenditures and foreign aid. The official selling rate applies to payments for specified essential imports, to transportation and insurance payments connected with trade trans- actions at the off ic ial rate, and to certain other payments for invisibles which are authorized up to specified amounts (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles, be low ). There is a f ree market for all other transactions. On December 31, 1964 the free rate was RF 104.7 per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions in the off ic ial market at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the National Bank of Rwanda for currencies quoted by that b a n k ;2 they deal in other currencies at rates fixed free ly with their customers. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to two authorized offices of a commercial bank. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Foreign Trade, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted and specified by the National B a n k ;2 other currencies may also be accepted, provided that 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 4,1965. 2 These are listed as Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 439 RWANDA the authorized bank concerned can convert them into a specified cur- rency at a discount not exceeding 5 per cent. Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples, baggage, and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to RF 5,000 require licenses. Appli- cations for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through the authorized bank. For the purposes of import licensing and exchange allocation, goods are classified in two lists—List A and List B. List A includes goods considered by the authorities to be essential. For these goods, an application for an import license must be submitted on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization. The approval of such an application by the National Bank constitutes an authorization also to obtain "allocated foreign exchange" at the official rate. List B includes goods considered by the authorities to be nonessential, such as butter, meat, alcoholic bever- ages, European fruits, cheeses, films, refrigerators, and private motor vehicles. For these imports, licenses are issued without an allocation of foreign exchange and exchange must be purchased in the f ree market. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank at the off ic ial rate for transport and insurance connected with official rate imports and exports, and transfers of up to 40 per cent of the salaries of foreigners working in Rwanda, up to a maximum of RF 20,000 a month. Salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave are transferable up to RF 30,000 a month. Residents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs up to certain limits. Purchases of foreign exchange at the official rate are authorized for travel purposes on an ad hoc basis. Transfers of dividends and profits f rom approved foreign investments, insurance premiums, and interest and amortization of foreign debt may be authorized on an ad hoc basis; however, the allocation of official exchange for transfer of profits and dividends is suspended. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange for all other categories of invisibles must be purchased in the f ree market. 440 RWANDA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). The authorized bank must present the Declaration to the National Bank for certifica- tion. It is valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank. For exports to Burundi, the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda payments must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have l e ft the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 90 days, and for certain exports of minerals, 180 days. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to the authorized bank at the official rate of exchange, within 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange from specified receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered within 8 days f rom their collection to the authorized bank at the official rate of exchange, e.g., receipts from expenditures by foreign embassies and from foreign aid. All other receipts f rom invisibles —including those resulting f rom the sale of goods and serv- ices to nonresidents temporarily staying in Rwanda, visitors' expenses, and remittances to religious missions, private schools, and other private institutions —may be exchanged at the free market rate. All claims subject to surrender at the official rate must be collected within 30 days f rom the date on which they become payable. Capital Repatriation of proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign invest- ments is subject to authorization. Outward capital transfers are usually not permitted. Changes during 1964 May 19. The National Bank of Rwanda was established as successor to the Bank of Issue of Rwanda and Burundi, which until then had been the common institute of issue for Rwanda and Burundi. May 19. A basic Exchange Control and Foreign Trade Law entered into force. A General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Com- mittee was established. June 1. Three sets of regulations concerning exchange control and trade control were issued by the National Bank, to be effective immediately. July 80. The Rwanda Industrial Produce Bureau (OCIR) was established. This office would be responsible for supervising the 441 RWANDA quality of Rwandese coffee, for organizing exports of coffee and other agricultural commodities, for stabilizing producer prices of coffee in Rwanda with the aid of a stabilization fund, and for promoting exports through campaigns financed by an export promotion fund. December 1. Permissible transfers of savings from salaries by for- eign nationals working in Rwanda were reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of salary, up to a limit that was reduced f rom RF 50,000 to RF 20,000 a month. December 1. The allocation of official exchange for transfer of profits and dividends was suspended. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1965: January 1. Imports of butter, meat, and spare parts for auto- mobiles were shifted f rom List A to List B. February 4- The amount beyond which imports require a license was raised from RF 2,000 to RF 5,000. 442 SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rale System The par value is Saudi Arabian Riyals 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy, are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place during 1964. 443 SENEGAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f r an cs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r anc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange trans- actions are handled by authorized banks in accordance with general or special authorization of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Senegal is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Guinea and Mali, with which Senegal has concluded bilateral payments agreements direct, are made through special accounts; the account with Guinea is denominated in U.S. dollars, and that with Mali in French francs. Settlements with other countries are usually made in French f rancs through banks in France: those with Rumania —with which France maintains a pay- ments agreement that applies also to transactions with Senegal — through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries, in any of the currencies of those countries —pro- vided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. aT he CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 444 SENEGAL Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of license and quantitative restriction. A joint French-Senegalese Committee establishes minimum amounts for imports of goods from the French Franc Area. There is an annual program for imports from all other countries. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are applied restrictively to most imports. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. Certificates of importation provide for the import of certain goods from European OECD countries, Canada, and the United States without quantitative restriction. The import of a number of goods is prohibited; also, imports of Portuguese and South A f r ican origin and/or provenance are prohibited. An import license or certificate of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents to prove that the goods have been shipped are submitted to an authorized bank. Applications for licenses to import goods to be used directly by exporters are approved freely if the imports are to be paid for with funds from EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are usually subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents from profits or dividends and transfers of other income are authorized freely by the Exchange Office. Payments for many other invisibles are approved with varying degrees of restrictiveness. There is a basic tourist allocation for travel to countries outside the French Franc Area of CFAF 75,000 (about $300) for each person a year, with the possibility of an increase up to the equivalent of CFAF 125,000 (about $500) for extended travel. Allocations for business travel are granted according to the nature and length of the trip and status of the applicant. Business travel may also be financed with funds from EFAC accounts. Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, bank- notes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of 445 SENEGAL those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of 750 French francs, or up to 75,000 CFA or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of 750 French francs in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to ensure that pay- ment conforms to the prescription of currency regulations, to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal, and to prevent certain re-exports. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special, non transferab le, EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters them- selves to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own businesses, for representation and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad. The proportions of export proceeds that may be credited to EFAC accounts are 12 per cent for firm sales to the United States and Canada, 8 per cent for firm sales to other countries outside the French Franc Area, and 6 per cent for sales on consignment. Except for proceeds from exports on consignment, these percentages may be increased by 3 per cent by enterprises principally engaged in export business. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect from nonresidents amounts exceed- ing F 100, or the equivalent in CFA francs, in respect of services and of income from foreign securities; if these collections are in foreign currencies, they must be surrendered within three months from the date of receipt. Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued 446 SENEGAL by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currencies is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Senegal and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between Senegal and all other countries require approval. Foreign investment in Senegal is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange O f f ice; approval depends on the nature and purpose of the proposed investment. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) with the Government by which he receives additional legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A con- vention d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a minimum investment over three years of CFAF 1 billion. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a minimum investment of CFAF 100 million in three years, or creates at least 100 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and s ta f f, may be accorded the designation of priority enterprises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to trans- actions with Senegal, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to transactions with Senegal, was terminated. June 22. It was announced that imports of eggs and egg yolks would be prohibited between January 1 and May 31 of each year. July 9. Certain measures were taken to give effect to the decisions of March 13, 1964 of the Committee of the West A f r ican Customs Union. These included certain reductions in import and export duties. 447 SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rale System No par value for the currency of Sierra Leone has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Leone (introduced on August 4, 1964), defined as a monetary unit containing 1.24414 grams of fine gold. It corresponds to Leone 1 = US$1.40 and Leone 1 = £ stg. 0.5. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the latter rate, subject to a maximum com- mission of 1 per cent on either side. The leone circulates concur- rently with the West Afr ican Pound, which the West Afr ican Currency Board maintains at par with the pound sterling, giving a relationship to the U.S. dollar of £WA 1 = US$2.80. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current London market rates. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Exchange Control Officer of the Ministry of Finance. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for traveling expenses. The Minister of Finance and Development has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account estab- lished under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area, including payments for imports, may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones or West Afr ican pounds to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any foreign currency. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones or West A f r ican pounds from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.1 xThe specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs (issued for Cameroon, Central African Republic, 448 SIERRA LEONE Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones or West Afr ican pounds held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with trans- fers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currencies by nonresidents. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from countries in the Soviet bloc, except those which are members of the GATT, and a few commodities2 from any source, require import licenses. All other imports may be made with- out individual licenses. Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Remittances to all other countries require approval. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of £250 during a 12-month period. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individ- ual basis. Travelers may take CFAF 4,000 in banknotes to former French West A f r ican territories, West A f r ican currency notes and leone notes without limit to other parts of West Afr ica, and £10 in West A f r ican currency notes or leone notes to countries outside West A f r ica. In addition to these limits, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, £25 in foreign banknotes other than those of the United Kingdom and £10 in sterling banknotes. Travelers to the United Kingdom may take out any amount in sterling notes that are Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ), Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Malagasy francs, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. 2 The list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and preparations, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, jewelry, gold, and commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce Market- ing Board (i.e., eggs and live cattle). 449 SIERRA LEONE legal tender in the United K ingdom; and to other parts of the Sterling Area they may export, but not on their person or in their baggage, any amount of banknotes in the currency of the territory to which the notes are exported. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain destinations, exports require individual export licenses. The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 1) of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in freely foreign and domestic banknotes, but must declare these on entry. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Investments by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if the issuer is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies under- taking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. 450 SIERRA LEONE Changes during 1964 August 4- The Bank of Sierra Leone, the central bank established on April 30, 1963, issued a new currency, the leone. The West A f r ican pound issued by the West A f r ican Currency Board would gradually be withdrawn from circulation. October 10. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Guinea. The Guinean f r anc was removed from the list of specified currencies. 451 SOMALIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Somali Shillings 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange transactions in convertible cur- rencies 1 with authorized dealers at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par value or official rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to official par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and five commercial banks appointed as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in gold and foreign currencies. The banks charge a foreign exchange commission (including banking commission) of 1.7 per cent for banknotes and 0.77 per cent for all other exchange transactions. Authorized exchange dealers generally do not conduct fo rwa rd exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to estab- lish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of converti- ble currencies,1 and to appoint banks as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the Finance Guard, advises the Ministry of Industry and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic transactions. A Licensing Committee, consisting of six members representing the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the Finance Guard, decides on applications for licenses for imports and for t rans fe rs in respect of services and capital. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce may also appoint local licensing committees. 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East African shillings, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 452 SOMALIA Prescription of Currency Settlements with payments agreement countries 2 are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling.3 Settle- ments with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in convertible currencies (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts in Somali shillings with any bank in Somalia. These accounts may be used freely for transactions in Somalia; authorization is required, however, for all transfers abroad. Diplomats, consular agents, and international organizations and their foreign staff may open accounts in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies (see footnote 1). Imports and Import Payments For reasons of public policy, the import of a few items is prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. Many other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses, how- ever, are required for 32 commodities or groups of commodities, constituting approximately one ha lf of total imports in value. These commodities comprise four broad categories: (1) items subject to control for reasons of security, health, or public policy; (2) com- modities wh ich are domestically produced or the import and distribu- tion of which is handled by state trading agencies; (3) commodities imported under tied loans and grants; and (4) items considered to be of a luxury or nonessential character. Special import regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized banking institutions. Such traders are permitted to export to a neighboring country and to use the proceeds for the import of goods from that country up to Sh. So. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances remaining f rom such com- pensation transactions must be surrendered. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license d i f fer in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of a certified copy of the import declaration together 2 Mainland China, United Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 3 Suez Canal dues, however, are settled in convertible currencies. 453 SOMALIA with the import license (where required) and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the author- ized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are subject to licensing. Nonresident travelers may take out freely any foreign exchange or Somali currency which they brought in, provided that they leave the country within three months of their arrival. Resident travelers may take out freely Sh. So. 200 in Somali notes and coins, any amount in foreign banknotes and coins which the Somali National Bank is not prepared to purchase, and other foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of Sh. So. 200. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds An export declaration is required for all commodities. Ten com- modities or groups of commodities constituting approximately one half of Somalia's exports are subject to license. All other exports may be made freely. Except in border trade (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above), all export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days af ter their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days af ter their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange or Somali currency; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers are obliged, upon 454 SOMALIA arrival, to declare and o f fer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold coins they bring in. Capital Most capital transactions are subject to licensing. In accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, foreign enterprises must be registered with the P lann ing Department of the President of the Council of Ministers. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those which engage in irrigation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and mineral exp lora t ion), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years af ter the date of registration. Profits resulting f rom other foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be trans- ferred abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years a f ter the date of investment. Changes during 1964 July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Italy was terminated. October 7. A new Law on Foreign Economic Transactions was passed by Parliament and two implementing decrees were promul- gated. The Law provided for the establishment of a un i fo rm exchange and trade control system throughout the whole country. Previously, exchange control in the Northern Region and the Southern Region had not been un i fo rm. October 29. The un i fo rm exchange and trade control system pro- vided for by the Law on Foreign Economic Transactions entered into effec t. October 29. Resident travelers could take out, without special authorization, Sh. So. 200 in Somali notes and coins, any amount in foreign banknotes and coins that the Somali National Bank is not prepared to purchase, and other foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of Sh. So. 200. December 2. Imports of tea and grey sheeting required an individual license. 455 SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is South A f r i c an Rand 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 199.75 buying, and R 200.75 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limita- tions, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1964 were US$1.39% buying, and US$1.387/8 selling, per R l. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaziland are regarded as non- residents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Afr ica, South West A f r ica, Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaziland, and these territories are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce and Industries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South A f r ica is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. xln the South African exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Malagasy francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 456 SOUTH AFRICA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries outside South A f r ica, South West A f r ica, Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaziland (except the Blocked Accounts of residents of the last three territories —see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into three categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r i c an residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South Afr ican residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South A f r i c a; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica. External Accounts are held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents to countries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers from other External Accounts in South Afr ica and f rom External Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country conce rned ); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling Area; for purchases of any non-sterling currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Afr ica. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the proceeds from sales of South A f r ican securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South A f r ica or to another Blocked Account in South A f r ica, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Government, Municipal, or Public Utility Stocks, the proceeds on redemption at maturity are freely 457 SOUTH AFRICA transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemp- tion. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available to nonresidents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable in fore ign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available to nonresidents only, of three-year, nonnegotiable, non transferab le bonds (called nonresident bonds) bearing interest at 3% per cent and repayable (in three annual installments from the date of subscription) in foreign currencies appli- cable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct investment in manu fac tu r ing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South A f r ican securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South A f r ica or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorab le consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, be low). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include practically all goods which are grown, produced, or manu fac tu red in Basutoland, Bechuanaland, Malawi, Rhodesia, Swaziland, and Zambia. The Import Control Regulations for 1965 distinguish between the following categories: (1) Goods that may be imported without import license. The list includes tea, raw cotton, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South A f r ica, newspapers, books, periodicals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, aircraft, office equipment (such as typewriters, bookkeeping machines, accounting machines, adding and calculating machines, computers, and dictating machines), photographic apparatus including photographic papers, optical goods, clocks and watches, scientific and laboratory equipment, and X-ray apparatus and film. (2) Goods that require import permits for which no annual quotas are fixed for individual importers. This list includes raw materials 458 SOUTH AFRICA and capital equipment for industry, mining, and agriculture, and comprises three main categories, as fo l lows: (a) goods required by manufac turers for processing in their own factories; (b) goods imported by merchants for resale to industry; and (c) capital plant and equip- ment. In respect of ( a ), permits are issued to cover their fu ll requirements, due regard being taken of the availability of supplies from domestic sources. (The term " fu ll requirements" is defined as six months' stock at the current rate of consumption. Availability from domestic sources is determined in the light of prices, quality, and delivery of locally manu fac tu red supplies.) For ( b ), permits are issued within the limits of quotas authorized f rom time to time with the proviso that expanding firms may have their allocation revised in relation to their actual growth; quotas for 1964 were fixed at 120 per cent of 1963 allocations. In respect of ( c ), importers are granted their fu ll requirements, provided that such plant and equipment are not available from domestic sources. Availability from domestic sources is determined (as in the case of raw materials) in the light of price, quality, and delivery. (3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) mate- rials for motor vehicles. Import permits are freely available to persons who wish to import built-up motorcars with a retail price not exceeding R 1,900 and who wish to travel outside South A f r ica, provided that they require the use of a motorcar during their absence (this applies to travel for vacations and business alike) and provided that the car is used abroad for two months or more. Import permits are issued freely to any person who wishes to import a motorcar with a retail price in the country of origin in excess of R 1,900. It is not necessary to use a motorcar in this latter category outside South Afr ica. Import permits are issued freely in respect of the CKD material required in respect of those passenger cars that have an approved local content program. Import permits for other cars or CKD material for such other cars are subject to quotas based on previous sales. Import permits for commercial vehicles are issued on a sales replacement basis. (4) Goods that require import permits and for which annual quotas are granted to individual importers. These goods include the remaining group of (a) so-called general merchandise; (b) pintables, novelty tables, juke boxes, coin-operated machines, amusement ma- chines, and television sets, imports of all of which are rarely admitted; and (c) milled rice and textile piece goods. (5) Goods that require specific import permits. These are goods that are available, or for which substitutes are available, both in quantity and quality, from domestic sources. They include certain consumer 459 SOUTH AFRICA goods (mainly food) and certain raw materials, such as cement, fertilizers, natural asphalt, ju te fiber, cardboard boxes, and wood. Importers of general merchandise and merchant importers of raw materials wishing to import any of the goods in this group may convert their import permits into specific permits (in which case the goods to be imported are specifically described), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific permit for which application is made fa ll within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such individual licenses may be obtained by the surrender of the original import permits on the basis of R 2 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit obtained. The first R 5,000 of an importer's total annual quota may be converted into a specific permit on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this category are imported under rebate of customs duty, a specific permit is not required and there is no import permit loss by conversion. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transaction, there is no limitation on the amoun t; for others, authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r ica, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the monetary area of the owner. The basic allowance in a calendar year for tourist travel is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ma law i, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West Afr ica. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South A f r ica may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which 460 SOUTH AFRICA South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 20. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r ica within 12 months a f ter arrival may take with them any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Afr ica. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for wh ich domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaz i land ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months f rom the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, residents may bring in R 20 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents a reasonable amount. Capital The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized banks without reference to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments; transfers to nonresident owners of balances of up to R 50, left over from the reinvestment of blocked fund s; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South A f r ica. Emigrant 461 SOUTH AFRICA families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds ( for emi- grants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a fam i ly were pe rm i t ted ); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at off ic ial market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 3% per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar fac i l i t ies have been available through subscription to five-year transferab le bonds. The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank may approve t rans fe rs of repay- ments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or be fo re June 16, 1961. Approval is given for the t rans fe r, by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries, of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South A f r ican Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r i c an (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted, although South A f r i c an stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applica- tions by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and the neighboring Portuguese territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South A f r i c an owned or controlled projects may be allowed by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas f rom being used as a first step in the onward transfer of capital to other countries. For three years af ter their arrival in South Afr ica, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South A f r i c an securities abroad. However, the proceeds f rom the sale of all securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. 462 SOUTH AFRICA Changes during 1964 March 18. It was announced that all applications from bona fide industrialists who fe lt that they should hold more than six months' stocks would continue to be examined sympathetically. A more liberal policy than previously would be followed with regard to the importa- tion of goods listed in Group A: with the exception of certain items such as cu t lery, crockery, domestic sewing machines, and pianos —in respect of wh ich permits would be issued to bring the 1964 issues up to 10 per cent over the 1963 levels —permits would be issued freely for the goods in that Group. Import permits to new firms —previously covering imports valued at R 3,000 for a retail business and R 5,000 for a wholesale business —would be increased to R 6,000 and R 10,000, respectively. The second allocation for Group B com- modities was made, bringing the 1964 Group B permits up to 10 per cent more than the 1963 issuer April 17. Certain imports were removed f rom the restricted list; importers ho ld ing suitable valid import permits would no longer be required to have specific permits to import these goods. April 29. It was announced that rand notes issued by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank and held abroad must be repatriated to South A f r i ca before June 30, 1964 for the proceeds to be transferable abroad. Rand notes repatriated a f ter that date would be credited to Blocked Accounts. May 16. Resident travelers could take out domestic banknotes up to R 20 (previously R 100) a person a trip, as well as the equivalent of R 180 in foreign notes (previously R 100). June 11. Nonresidents holding funds in Blocked Accounts were offered five-year transferable bonds on a discount basis and by tender. The tenders were invited for bonds in multiples of R 1,000 and would be closed on August 3, 1964; af ter that date, however, tenders would be held until fu r ther notice on the first business day of each month. The Treasury reserved the right to determine a minimum price per centum at wh ich the bonds would be offered. The bonds would be redeemable at face value five years f rom the date of acceptance of the tender. The redemption proceeds would be trans- ferable in the currency of the monetary area of which the holder is a resident. September 8. A fur ther issue of import permits for general merchandise was authorized so as to bring the 1964 level of permit issues up to 10 per cent above the 1963 level. In addition, a fur ther allocation of 10 per cent was granted for the import of textile piece goods. 463 SOUTH AFRICA November 19. A. fu r ther relaxation of import controls was announced. Goods representing some 11 per cent of the value of total imports would be added to the free list from January 1, 1965. It was also announced that the pattern of control was being simplified. Most of the goods hitherto included in Group A (consumer goods generally of a type not available loca l ly ), and certain items of office equip- ment, would be added to the list of goods that might be imported without an import license. The few remaining items in Group A would be transferred to Group B (consumer goods generally of a type available locally) and would be designated as "general merchandise" or "consumer goods." The basis of assessment for importers affected by the regrouping would be reviewed in the light of the type and volume of their business. Goods subject to import licensing but not to the regime of annual quotas for individual importers now comprised three main categories: (1) Goods required by manufac turers for processing in their own factories. For these, the policy would be continued whereby manu- fac turers obtained their requirements on the basis of the current rate of usage. On application, which could be made at any time, manu- facturers would receive supplementary import facilities sufficient to enable them to maintain six months7 stocks at the current rate of consumption. Manufac turers were, however, urged to obtain raw materials and semiprocessed goods, wherever possible, f rom local sources. With this qualification, manufacturers could place orders in advance, provided that they were "reasonable" in relation to their present rate of usage where delivery periods were very long. (2) Goods imported by merchants for resale. For these, initial allocations for 1965 would be issued on the basis of 75 per cent of imports by such merchants during the first nine months of 1963. (3) Capital plant and equipment. For these, importers would continue to be granted their f u ll requirements, based on end-user demand but with account taken of local production possibilities. The initial issue for "general merchandise" would be the same as the initial issue for Group B goods in 1964, i.e., 30 per cent of an importer's assessment basis. Licensing of automobiles and commercial vehicles would continue on the basis of the existing fo rmu la. The initial issue for agricultural implements and tractors would be based on 75 per cent of the total permits issued in the first nine months of 1963. The import of new makes of tractors would not, however, be allowed. Textile piece goods would be treated on the same basis as other raw materials, i.e., manufac turers would be allowed to hold six months' stocks on the basis of current usage. 464 SOUTH AFRICA November 30. A trade agreement with Rhodesia was signed under which mutual tariff preferences were increased on a large number of items (including foodstuffs, cotton or woolen piece goods, and various manufactures). 465 SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par value is Spanish Pesetas 60.00 = US$1. The official limits are Pts 59.55 buying, and Pts 60.45 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified currencies l admitted to the exchange market vary between limits wh ich result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute ( IEME ), which publishes the rates at wh ich it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and fo rwa rd transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and the Spanish towns and provinces in A f r i ca constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and, on a technical administrative level, by the IEME and the General Department of Foreign Trade —both in the Ministry of Commerce —and authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries 2 and with Turkey are made through agreement accounts expressed in 1 These currencies are, in addition to U.S. dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Republic of China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Mauritania, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral payments agreement with Morocco requiring payments between the two countries to be made in bilateral dirhams or bilateral pesetas. 466 SPAIN U.S. dollars. Balances on the account with Turkey are settled monthly in convertible exchange. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accoun ts: external accounts in convertible pesetas and external accounts in in ternal pesetas. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that ma rke t; with authorized current and capital payments wh ich have been l ibera l ized or authorized by license, when such paymen ts are to be made in pesetas or specified fo re ign currencies; with transfers f rom other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; and with interest received on ba lances held on these accounts. They may be debited for the purchase of fore ign currencies ( inc lud ing fore ign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange ma rke t; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external accoun t; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited w i th pensions, salaries, profits, and dividends obtained by the account holder and not otherwise t rans fe rab le; with receipts f rom the National Lottery; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses of the account holder in Spain, and for the purchase of government bonds and of fixed-interest- bearing stocks issued by Spanish pub l ic corporations. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, indus tr ia l, or agricultural purposes; country properties so purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of un irr iga ted land. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. imports and Import Payments All imports require either an import license or an "import declara- tion" issued by the General Department of Foreign Trade. "Import declarations" are issued freely for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import f r ee list that applies to most countries with wh ich Spain has no bilateral payments agreements.3 All other imports require licenses. 8 The countries to which the import free list applies are Austria, Belgium, Den- mark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, 467 SPAIN There are global quotas for specified imports f rom countries to wh ich the f ree list applies. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for invisibles All t ran s fe rs abroad and payments by residents in favor of non- residents on account of current invisibles are subject to au thor iza t ion, ma in ly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange f ree ly, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services t rans fe rs may be made freely up to a pre-established amoun t; for transfers wh ich exceed that amount, licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (exc lud ing securities issued by private companies acquired th rough direct subscription) acquired a f ter Ju ly 27, 1959 may f ree ly transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct investments made a f ter Ju ly 27, 1959 for the modernization, expansion, or establishment of Spanish enterprises may also be transferred abroad without restric- tion. Income f r om all investments made be fo re July 28, 1959 (wh ich had to be approved on an ind iv idual basis) may be transferred without restriction to holders in any country if the income has accrued a f ter Ju ly 27, 1959; transfers abroad of income accrued be fo re Ju ly 28, 1959 require special authorization by the IEME. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain w i th Spanish firms or with fore ign insurance companies operating in Spain. Other insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Pts 42,000 a person for each trip. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Pts 1,500 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Pts 75,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the IEME for additional exchange, wh ich is granted Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas terri- tories; and Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Ceylon, Chile, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Iraq, Jordan, Liberia, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Rhodesia, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanganyika, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United States, Vene- zue la, V ie t -Nam, and Zamb ia. Bolivia is also de facto included in this list. 468 SPAIN liberally for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Pts 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are sub ject to prior licensing by the General Department of Foreign Trade. With very few exceptions, licenses are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Pts 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted free ly in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted f ree ly, and that wh ich exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Council of Ministers. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, pub l ic in fo rma t ion, and certain public services. New foreign investment (as well as Spanish) for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture is f ree f rom control, provided that certain minimum conditions are me t; these conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in existing enterprises in these sectors is permitted free ly even if the m in imum conditions are not fu l f i l led. All investment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferr ing currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital t rans fe rab le under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, inc lud ing capital appreciation, f rom the liquidation of fore ign direct investments made a f ter July 27, 1959 for the purpose 469 SPAIN of es tab l ish ing, mode rn iz ing, and expand ing Span ish enterprises may be t r an s f e r r ed f ree ly. T ran s fe rs abroad of p r inc ipal of investments made by non res iden ts pr ior to Ju ly 28, 1959 are, howeve r, not a l lowed. Purchases by non res iden ts of shares in most Spanish compan ies, as spec if ied in Decree No. 701 of Ap r il 18, 1963 ( i n c l u d i ng inves tment trus ts but exc lud ing those compan ies whose ac t iv i ty is directly connec ted w i th na t ional d e f e n s e, pub l ic i n f o rm a t i o n, and certain p u b l ic s e rv i c e s ), are pe rm i t ted f r e e ly. This app l ies to shares acqu ired by Span iards res ident ab road, as we ll as by resident or nonresident fo re igne rs, e i ther w i th conve r t ib le pesetas or w i th pesetas resu l t ing f r om the conversion of fo re ign currenc ies negotiable in the Spanish exchange ma rke t. Proceeds, i n c l u d i ng capital gains, f r om the l iqu ida- t ion of such shares acqu i red a f t er Ju ly 27, 1959 may be t rans fe r red abroad at any t ime, or used for f u r t h er purchases of shares. The above app l ies also to bonds and o ther fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish compan ie s; there is no l im it on bond holdings. Proceeds ob ta ined f r om the sale of nonres ident ho ld ings of shares of Spanish compan ies and o th er Spanish securities acqu i red be fo re Ju ly 28, 1959 may be used to pu rcha se other Spanish securities, but may not be t ran s fe r red ab road. Inves tment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is f r e e ly permitted if f inanced w i th pesetas der ived f r om convertible currenc ies or f rom ba lances in conve r t ib le peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered au tho r ized banks to p rov ide the inves tor w i th a document ce r t i fy ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the on ly requ irement for off ic ial registration of the change in owne r sh ip. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed f r om external accounts in in te rnal pesetas (see section on Nonres ident Accoun ts, abov e ). Ou tward capital t rans fe rs by residents requ ire approva l. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same l ine of business are granted ra ther l ibe ra l ly, prov ided that the inves tment con tr ibu tes to the expansion of Spanish expor ts; this inc ludes par t ic ipa t ion in foreign enterprises. Other d irect investments are sub ject to more severe restrictions. Po r t fo l io investments are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on cr i ter ia s im i lar to those applied to residents' requests to make d irect investments abroad. Suppliers' cred i ts by Spanish residents to non res iden ts require a u t h o r i z a t i o n; such au tho r iza t ion accompanies the export license. Be fo re issu ing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the g ran t ing of the credit. 470 SPAIN There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor w i th short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions within Spain may, however, be authorized by the IEME. For t ran s fe rs abroad of inhe r i tances and dowries, au tho r iza t ions are granted l ibera l ly when small amounts are involved. Changes during 1964 January 29. The new list of global quotas for 1964 was published. The number of quotas was increased f rom 53 to 68; the total value amoun ted to $126 m i l l ion, an increase of $35 million over the ir 1963 va lue. Commodities f reed th rough l ibe ra l iza t ion measures in 1963 were om i t ted; several new quotas were added for goods previously under ind iv idual licensing or state trading. February 14. A b i la teral payments agreement with Mau r i tan ia was signed. June 6. The amounts of fo re ign exchange wh ich au thor ized banks were allowed to sell for expenses abroad were increased for a number of categories of current invisibles: (1) for business trave l, f rom the equivalent of Pts 750 a day (up to a max imum of Pts 22,500 a traveler for each tr ip) to the equ iva lent of Pts 1,500 a day (up to Pts 75,000 a traveler for each t r i p ); (2) for tourist travel, f rom the equivalent of Pts 16,500 a person a year to the equivalent of Pts 42,000 a person for each t r ip; (3) for commercial or tourist publicity expenses, f rom the equivalent of Pts 25,000 to Pts 50,000; (4) for employees' pensions, f rom the equivalent of Pts 3,000 to Pts 10,000 a mon th; and (5) for f am i ly assistance, f rom the equivalent of Pts 3,000 to Pts 5,000 a month. August 13. Income f r om investments made in Spain be fo re July 28, 1959 (when a new foreign investment regime became e f fec t ive) could be t rans fe r red free ly to any country, if the income had accrued a f ter Ju ly 27, 1959. Previously, such t ran s fe rs could take place without restriction to holders in specified countries only, or to holders in other countries, up to 8 per cent per annum of the value of the investment. Income f rom investments made be fo re July 28, 1959 wh ich had accrued prior to that date could now also be t rans fe r red abroad if prior authorization was obtained f rom the IEME. Previously, these t rans fe rs were prohibited. November 20. A new b i la teral payments agreement with Colombia was signed. The sem iannual settlement in convertible currencies with respect to a small proportion of payments for Spanish exports to Colombia was discontinued. 471 SPAIN November 23.. A n in th list of liberalized imports was published. It inc luded 96 head ings of the customs t a r i f f, or their parts. Most items on the list were freed immediately, and the rest were to be l ibera l ized in successive stages on February 1, March 1, May 1, and Ju ly 1, 1965. November 23. Increases were announced in the 1964 global quotas for a number of imports whose prices in Spain had risen by more than 3 per cent du r ing 1964. An increase in imports of foods tu f fs by government agencies was also announced. 472 SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Sudanese Pound 1 = US$2.87156. O f f ic ial rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan, whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.974 buy ing, and LSd 0.976 selling, per £ stg. 1. The banks deal with the pub l ic at rates between LSd 0.9715 buy ing, and LSd 0.9785 selling, per £ stg. 1. Off ic ial rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed da i ly by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The au thor ized banks quote the ir own rates for other currencies, based on market quotations in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the de ta il being carried out by au thor ized banks. Licensing of imports and exports is the responsibility of the M in is try of Commerce, Industry, and Supply, but all licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities or by the au thor ized banks under the powers delegated to them. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral coun t r ie sl are normally settled in Sudanese pounds through the relevant Bilateral A c coun t; however, most noncommerc ial invisibles have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any fore ign cu r rency; receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any Convertible Account or in any convertible or externally con- vertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than b i la teral coun tr ies may main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated Convertible Accoun ts; these are exchangeable into any fore ign currency. Bilateral Accounts are used for most transactions with countries with wh ich the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements.1 1 The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements w i th Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, and Poland. Certain payments between the Sudan and the United Arab Republic continue to be made through the payments agreement accounts established under the terminated payments agreement w i th that coun try. 473 SUDAN Blocked Accounts are maintained by fo rmer residents; earnings accruing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, wh ich are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not sub ject to licensing, comprising goods imported directly by the Government, trade samples, books, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the va lue of wh ich does not exceed LSd 2, or, for g i f t s, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which comprises a wide range of essential goods, inc lud ing raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely f rom any source; for tea, however, the open general license applies only to Ma in land Ch ina, East A f r i c a, and India. (3) Imports sub ject to ind iv idual licensing. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the Ministry of Commerce and validated by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank or by an au thor ized bank. For goods on the open general license, importers must register their import transactions with the Ministry of Commerce, before entering into firm contracts with fore ign supp l ie rs; the registration fo rm must be validated by the central bank or an authorized bank. The Ministry of Commerce checks to see that prices are reasonable, wh i le the central bank or commercial bank checks the observance of the prescription of currency requirements and the terms of payment. Imports f rom Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the bank must require a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. In practice, the granting of fore ign exchange appropr ia te to the country of origin of the goods is automatic if a commodity is on open general license or if an individual license has been granted. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances are permitted for fam i ly maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a y e a r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 720 a student a y e a r ), and for certain other purposes. Travel allowances for tourism and other purposes 474 SUDAN are authorized up to the equivalent of LSd 100 for each adult, and LSd 25 for each ch i ld, annua l ly. Salaried fo re ign na t iona ls not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to the country of the ir nationality. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. Income accru ing to emigrants f rom blocked assets in the Sudan ( inc lud ing income f rom blocked accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese cu r rency; pilgrims may not export Sudanese banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports f rom the Sudan are sub ject to licensing (ma in ly to ensure the surrender of the exchange proceeds) and to certain regulations governing the credit terms that can be extended to foreign buyers. Export licensing is l ibe ra l; only products in short supply are subject to restrictive licensing. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an au thor ized bank within six months a f ter export. Exports on credit are limited by the six-month surrender requirement, as well as by specific regulations governing consignment sales. Exports to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries; pilgrims, however, are not permitted to import Sudanese banknotes. Capital Under a law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration f rom the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. 475 SUDAN Changes during 1964 January 2. Foreign nationals permanently resident in the Sudan, other than salaried temporary residents, were no longer permitted annual t rans fe rs of savings (previously LSd 2,500 a y e a r ), but became entitled to the allocations for current invisibles applicable to Sudanese nationals. The exchange granted for certain invisibles was reduced as fo l lows. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance were limited to LSd 500 a person and remittances for educational purposes to LSd 720 a s tuden t; previously, the exchange in either case was granted ad hoc, no def in i te limits hav ing been established. Capital earnings f r om assets le ft in the Sudan by emigrants became transferab le abroad, up to LSd 1,500 a year. April 14. The open general license for exports of sheep was canceled. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Repub l ic was term ina ted. 476 SURINAM 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Sur inam Guilders 1.88585 = US$1. The off ic ial rates a r e -Su r. f. 1.87 buy ing, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in convertible cu r r en c i e s ;2 payments to and f rom the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Ne ther lands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Payments to and f rom the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Ne ther lands guilders kept w i th authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may free ly open and hold accounts in foreign currency w i th domestic banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for protective reasons. Some commodities are sub ject to import quo tas; other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made ava i lab le upon presentation of the license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. The commercial banks have authority to provide fo re ign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membersh ip dues, copy and * In view of the change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, British West Indian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 477 SURINAM patent rights, e t c . ); up to Sur. f. 300 a year f rom each remitter in respect of g i f t s; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remitter's own fam i ly in the Netherlands or the Netherlands Antilles ( fam i ly remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, wh ich is granted upon application). The basic exchange a l lowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destination. Travelers may take out a max imum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Control Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports do not require licenses, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an authorized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manu- fac tu re of plywood and particle board may be exported only in special circumstances. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in fore ign currency without limit, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 provides for the t rans fer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of f u l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. It also provides for the transfer of profits. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private foreign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. Licenses are granted on application for transfers abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of 478 SURINAM more than Sur. f. 25,000, fu r th er annual t ran s fe rs above the max imum of Sur. f. 25,000 are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets belonging to depar t ing persons, inc lud ing emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Transfers for investment in foreign securities by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct invest- ments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Changes during 1964 No significant changes took place dur ing 1964. NOTE. —The fo l low ing change took place early in 1965: January 1. The amounts up to wh ich remittances for the support of the remitter's own fam i ly could be made free ly were changed f rom Sur. f. 375-750 to Sur. f. 450-600 a month. 479 SWEDEN Exchange System The par va lue is Swedish Kroner 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U.S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the marginal rates, namely, SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of marginal rates for 13 currencies,1 based upon the above marginal rates for the U.S. dollar and the limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buy ing and selling rates, the average of wh ich must lie within the established marginal limits. The d ifference between the buying and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, f rom foreign banks and other nonresidents (1) convertible currencies 2 against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Convertible Account or a Bi- lateral Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ), and (2) bilateral currencies against Swedish kronor credited to a corresponding Bilateral Account. They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents (1) convertible currencies against any other convertible currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Convertible Account, and (2) bilateral currencies against a convertible currency or Swedish kronor debited to either a corresponding Bilateral Account or a Convertible Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents fo rwa rd exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Convertible currencies are the currencies of all countries except those with which Sweden has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 4 ). 480 SWEDEN other receipts and payments. Au thor ized banks may conclude forward transactions with other authorized banks or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Forward market rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.3 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt f rom exchange control provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been given power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foods tu f fs, wh ich are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral coun tr ies4 and the convertible area (all other countries). Payments to residents of bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the country concerned or by crediting kroner to a Bilateral Account related to that country. Receipts f rom bilateral countries may be accepted in any currency of the convertible area or in kronor through a Bilateral Account of the country concerned or through any Convertible Account. Payments to residents of countries in the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kronor to any nonresident account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low ). Receipts from countries in the convertible area may be accepted in the currency of any country in that area or in Swedish kronor debited to any Convertible Account. 8 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alter- nates are appointed by the King; the other members and their alternates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 4 Eastern Germany (with which there is a privately concluded compensation trade agreement), Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 481 SWEDEN Payments to Sweden on account of merchanting trade must be made in convertible currency or in Swedish kroner through a Convertible Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents. Regular Accounts include Bilateral Accounts, held by residents of countries with which Sweden has bilateral payments arrangements (see footnote 4 ), and Convertible Accounts, held by residents of all other countries. Convertible Accounts may also be held by residents of bilateral countries, e.g., when the amounts credited to such accounts originate from other Convertible Accounts or f rom the sale of currencies of countries in the convertible area. Convertible Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Convertible Accounts, with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area by residents of Sweden, and with sales of the currencies of countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. Bilateral Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Bilateral Accounts of the same country or f rom any Convertible Account, with authorized payments by residents of Sweden, and with sales of currencies of countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Bilateral Accounts of the same country, exchanged into the currency of that country, and debited for authorized payments to residents of Sweden f rom residents of the country of the account holder. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresidents af ter emigrating f rom that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred f rom abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds 482 SWEDEN denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts 5 are in convertible foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in convertible currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in convertible currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of convertible currencies, or transfers f rom Convertible Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agr icu l tural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for w i thd rawa ls in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports are f r ee of quantitative restriction. Techn ica l ly, imports are admitted either in accordance with three liberalization lists or under ind iv idual licensing. One of the liberaliza- tion lists is of only minor impor tance; the other two re fer to agr icu l tural and industrial items, respectively. Excluding a very small number of items on the agricultural list, both lists are applicable to (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pac if ic islands under U.S. control, and (2) A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Imports not covered by the liberalization lists require individual licenses, some of wh ich are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, inc lud ing normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. 5 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized receipts in convertible currencies, and be debited for authorized payments in convertible currencies. 483 SWEDEN Payments for Invisibles Exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 500 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out free ly up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, abov e ); all exports to Eastern Germany, however, require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlimited amounts of other means of payment. 484 SWEDEN Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual au thor iza t ion, which normally is granted. Residents may, on applica- tion, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, on application, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; a f ter one calendar year, he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of l i f e, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortiza- tion of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and inheritances. Residents can accept other kinds of capital receipts f rom abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits f rom nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. In principle, permission is not granted for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which normally is given. Liquidation of such investments and the transfer of proceeds, including appreciation, require authorization, which always is given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell foreign securities to nonresidents, provided that they receive payment in convertible currency. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted unless the purchase is made with proceeds f rom the sale by the purchaser to a nonresident of other foreign securities expressed in foreign currencies (sw i tch ing), and is made within six months of that sale. Residents may buy foreign securities from other residents without authorization. Residents are permitted upon application to purchase abroad Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, under general authorization, hand le such purchases without limitation. They may also handle the 485 SWEDEN purchase abroad of Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the fo rm of other similar securities (sw i tches ), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are me t; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase f rom, and the date of the sale to, the foreign party. Changes during 1964 October 12. Swedish nationals abroad who have been permanently resident outside Sweden for at least one calendar year since emigration were permitted to export without limitation the remainder of their assets; previously, the t rans fer of assets in excess of SKr 100,000 was not permitted until three years a f ter emigration. October 12. Authorized banks and stockbrokers were permitted to purchase abroad on behalf of residents, without limitation, such Swedish securities denominated in Swedish kronor as met the affidavit requirements. Previously, banks and stockbrokers had general authori- zation to handle such purchases up to a maximum amount of SKr 50,000 in each case. 486 SWITZERLAND 1 Exchange Rate System is established at 6% i() The gold content of the Swiss Franc ( = 0.20322 . . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a f ree market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 31, 1964 was Sw F 4.3149 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with eight countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments with seven countries or monetary a r e a s ;2 Switzerland also controls its payments with one other.3 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries) may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory.4 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 3 Eastern Germany, including East Berlin. 4 For purposes of capital control, however, the Principality of Liechtenstein is considered as a foreign territory. 487 SWITZERLAND Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accord- ance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss f r an c s; however, settlements with the United A rab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as fo l lows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentral- ized" accounts, comprising those wh ich may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferab le only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United A rab Republic, wh ich are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred free ly among themselves. Imports and Import Payments With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports f rom countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly; however, payments to Eastern Germany ( inc lud ing East Berlin) and countries with which Switzerland has bilateral payments agreements are controlled. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. 488 SWITZERLAND Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of con- trolled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss f rancs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital f rom countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and f rom other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 5 million each, which require permission. The use of foreign f u n d s5 in Switzerland is subject to certain restrictions. Changes during 1964 January 24/March 16. A two-year anti-inflationary program was announced which could be extended for another year. It included the fo l low ing provisions affecting foreign investments. The Federal Coun- cil (Bundesrat) was authorized to impose in association with the Swiss National Bank the following requirements on all banks and savings and financial institutions regulated by the Federal Banking Law: (1) not to pay interest on balances deposited by nonresidents after January 1, 1964; (2) to give foreign depositors of such balances notice of cancellation; and (3) to deposit the Swiss f ranc equivalent of such balances in a special account with the Swiss National Bank, to the extent that this amount is not offset by bank investment abroad in a foreign currency. The Federal Council also was authorized to require all banks and savings and financial institutions, as well as all other institutions and persons engaged in investing capital, to limit investments on behalf of nonresidents in Swiss securities, real estate, or mortgages, or to refrain from such investment. 5 Funds owned by physical persons of foreign nationality domiciled outside Switzerland or by juridical persons having their principal office outside Swit- zerland. 489 SWITZERLAND February 1. The regulations of the sector of controlled payments ceased to apply to Iran. March 31. The existing gentlemen's agreement relating to the treat- ment of foreign funds in Switzerland, wh ich had been conc luded between the Swiss National Bank and the financial institutions subject to the Federal Banking Law, was replaced by a new agreement provid- ing for stricter and more detailed controls over nonresident-owned funds and over investment of such funds in Switzerland. One of the main provisions was that banks and other financial institutions must not pay any interest on foreign funds credited to accounts in Swiss f rancs since January 1, 1964, with the exception of balances of central banks, specified saving deposits up to Sw F 20,000, and unused portions of proceeds f rom issues of securities in Switzerland and of credits obtained f rom Swiss banks. The equivalent of balances in Swiss francs held by nonresidents (savings and deposit accounts in excess of Sw F 20,000 and all other deposits) was required to be deposited in a blocked account with the Swiss National Bank, to the extent that such balances were not offset by bank investment abroad in foreign currencies. Interest could, however, be paid on balances established before January 1, 1964. The banks undertook to re f ra in f rom investing in Swiss real estate and mortgages on beha lf of non- residents. Purchases of securities in Switzerland by nonresidents were limited to certain securities listed by the Swiss National Bank, such as shares of Swiss holding companies and certificates of investment trusts whose assets were invested outside Switzerland to the extent of at least 80 per cent. Foreign residents also remained free to exercise subscription rights on Swiss shares that they owned. A bank could, however, sell Swiss securities to nonresidents du r ing any month up to the amount of that bank's purchases of such securities f rom nonresidents during the same month. The purchase by nonresi- dents of foreign shares quoted in Switzerland and of foreign bonds issued in Swiss f rancs remained f ree of restriction. April 24. The above-mentioned agreement between the Swiss National Bank and the financial institutions relating to the treatment of foreign funds was made legally b ind ing for all banks and institutions subject to the Federal Banking Law, and, when such funds were to be invested on behalf of nonresidents, also for all other institutions and persons engaged in the investment of capital. May 13. The limit beyond which certain capital transfers to coun- tries outside the sector of controlled payments require permission was reduced from Sw F 10 million to Sw F 5 million. 490 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was estab- lished by Syria with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange rates, an off ic ial rate of LS 3.80 buying, LS 3.82 selling, per US$1, and a free market rate, wh ich on December 31, 1964 was LS 4.0494 buy ing, and LS 4.0674 selling, per US$1. The f ree market rate applies to all private imports f rom neighbor- ing countries l and Lebanon; imports of certain luxury goods f rom any coun t ry; all private invisibles except those related to trade settled th rough the o f f ic ial market, and remittances for study abroad; exports to ne ighbo r ing countries of items other than ma jor expo r ts ;2 exports of wheat to Iraq and Jo rd an; and all private capital movements. The o f f ic ial rate applies to all remaining transactions. The authorized commercial banks charge a commission of %0 of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy, usually on the sugges- tions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general directives of the Council on Money and Credit. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy, and exchange licenses for invisibles not related to trade and for capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The usual requirement is that proceeds of m a jor exports to all countries except those with which Syria has 1 Aden, Afghanistan, Arab Gulf Amirates, Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Yemen. 2 Whea t, barley, corn m i l le t, chick peas, peanuts, lentils, residues resulting from the extraction of vegetable oil, raw wool, raw cotton, and lint. 491 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC bilateral payments agreements 3 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,4 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds f rom exports to neighboring countries may be obtained in the currencies of those countries. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be kept in Syrian pounds and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks, and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian A rab Republic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, wh ich is granted freely. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in foreign currencies, but only if these accounts result f rom an inflow of capital. Transfers from these accounts are made freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three main categories: (1) imports pro- hibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises 65 tariff items—mostly goods that are produced domestically, includ- ing some textile products; (2) imports on a Restrictive List, which comprises 201 tariff items of less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and wh ich are freely authorized. All imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Permitted imports require individual licenses, wh ich are granted freely without any discrimination as to country of origin or quantitative restriction. The licenses are required mainly for statistical purposes. Goods included in the Restrictive List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special ind iv idual license f rom the Ministry of Economy, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Restrictive or Prohibited Lists) f rom Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are not subject to license, in accordance with the 3 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Ceylon, Ma in land China, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Spain, and U.S.S.R. A b i la teral agreement with the United Arab Repub l ic is u t i l ized only for transactions concluded prior to separation in October 1961. 4 "Acceptable" currencies are those for wh ich the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and U.S. dollars. 492 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC bilateral agreements of Syria with these countries. These imports include agricultural commodities, livestock, and some industrial prod- ucts. Imports f rom other countries with which Syria has bilateral agreements are not subject to any favorable treatment. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, includ- ing raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the fo l low ing taxes on imports wh ich are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the t a r i f f, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (about 140 tariff items can be imported only through Syrian ha rbo rs ), and (6) an ocean tax of %0 of 1 Per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, inc lud ing those of neighboring countries (see footnote 1). Payment for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time d ra f ts, bills for collection, or by crediting a nonresident account. The importer submits to the authorized commercial banks the import license and the invoice wh ich, in turn, are submitted by the banks to the Exchange Office for approval; this is granted according to the availability of exchange. A f ter approval is granted, the commercial banks open the letters of credit or accept the bills for collection. All imports f rom the neighboring countries and Lebanon and some imports of luxury goods f rom any country must be financed through the free market. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided promptly, while exchange for the latter is granted a f ter a delay of up to seven months. A limited group of essential imports is subject to a 15 per cent advance deposit; other imports, except imports of luxury goods, are subject to a 40 per cent advance deposit; luxury imports require a 70 per cent advance deposit. The advance deposit is refunded when payment is made for the import. The following are exempt from the advance import deposit requirements: imports financed with suppliers* credit for at least one yea r; imports financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; goods imported by firms engaged in develop- ment pro jec ts in the Syrian A rab Repub l ic; reimported goods; goods imported in transit that are to be re-exported; imports by diplomatic or consular establishments and UN agencies; samples; gifts without commercial va lue; all f ru i ts and vegetables; and certain types of livestock. 493 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate and for study abroad may be made at the off ic ial rate. All other payments for invisibles may be made free ly through the free market, provided that they are genuine transactions and do not involve an outflow of capital. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange as fo l lows: for travel to Arab countries, the equivalent of LS 600 a tr ip; for travel to other countries, the equivalent of LS 1,750 a trip; and for children under ten years of age, 50 per cent of these amounts. Fixed a l loca t ions also exist for other invisibles, as fo l lows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian A rab Repub l ic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency w i th in the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of the main export products (19 tariff items, including wheat, barley, cotton, and cottonseed) and of goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. The proceeds of all exports to countries other than those with which there are bilateral payments agreements must be obtained in "acceptable" currencies (see footnote 4) or other currencies, and surrendered at the off ic ial buying rate of LS 3.80 per US$1. The proceeds of other than ma jor exports to neighboring countries (see footnote 1) may be sold in the free market. Exports of wheat to Iraq and Jordan may also be sold in the free market. Exports of cotton are sub ject to a specific export tax of 20 piastres per kilo. All exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. 494 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles, inc lud ing tourism, may be sold in the free market. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in un l im i ted foreign exchange in any fo rm, pro- vided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 200 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange are free for residents and nonresidents and may be effected through the f ree market. Exports of capital require the approval of the Exchange Off ice; if approved, they must be effected through the free market. Changes during 1964 January 6. All imports, regardless of the method of payment, were made sub ject to advance deposits of 15, 40, and 70 per cent, depending upon their essentiality. January 7. A limited free market (the "parallel" market) was established. Hencefor th, the fo l low ing transactions had to be made through that market: all private imports from certain neighboring countries (see footnote 1) and Lebanon; certain luxury imports from all countries; exports to certain neighboring countries (see footnote 1) of items other than ma jor exports (see footnote 2 ); all invisibles except those related to trade which is settled through the official market, and remittances for study abroad; and capital imports and exports by residents and nonresidents. January 7. The exchange allocations for various current invisibles were modified as fo l lows: for travel to Arab countries the equivalent of LS 600 a trip, and for other countries the equivalent of LS 1,750 a tr ip; 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in Syria; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in Syria; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, requests for additional amounts had to be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. January 7. All exports of goods of foreign origin required an export license. January 13. The amount of Syrian currency that nonresident travelers might take out freely was reduced to LS 100. 495 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC June 17. Decree No. 409 abolished the advance import deposit requirements for imports financed with the importer's own foreign exchange, reimported goods, goods imported in transit and to be re-exported, imports by diplomatic or consular establishments and UN agencies, samples, and gifts without commercial value. June 25. Proceeds from exports of wheat to Jordan and Iraq were permitted to be sold in the free exchange market. November 23. Afghanistan was added to the group of neighboring countries (see footnote 1). 496 TANZANIA 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Tanzania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the East African Shilling, which is off ic ia l ly maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relationship EA Sh 1 = US$0.14. It circulates freely in the East A f r ican currency area, which comprises Aden, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the public, the East A f r ican Currency Board stands ready to issue East A f r ican currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r ican currency. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are within % per cent and % per cent, respectively, of parity. Banks in Tanzania base their rates for other currencies on the current market rates in London; the rates so established are the same as those quoted in Kenya. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving import payments and specified categories of other current payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export trade control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Coopera- tives. The responsibility for issuing specific licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications for import and export licenses must be submitted before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling, in East A f r ican shillings to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling, in East A f r ican shillings f rom an 1 The United Republic of Tanzania. In view of the fact that the controls of Tanganyika and Zanzibar have not yet been fully integrated, this survey presents the situation in Tanganyika. 497 TANZANIA External Account, or in any specified foreign c u r r e n c y ;2 authorized banks are permitted, however, to grant exemptions f rom this require- ment. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by Tanzania residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzania of pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East Afr ican shillings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Tanzania residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzan ia; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Accounts in East A f r ican shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currency or gold to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency or gold from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds belonging to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be transferred to countries outside the Sterling Area. These accounts are subject to regulations similar to those applying in the United Kingdom to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East Afr ican common ma rke t3 is unrestricted. Goods f rom specified areas or groups of countries outside the East A f r ican com- mon market may be imported either under open general license or under specific license; the latter permits specific transactions not 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The East African common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 498 TANZANIA authorized under open general license. Specific licenses are required for imports of all goods originating in Iran, Iraq, Japan, French Somaliland, the United Arab Republic, and Hungary, and for imports from any country of wheat and flour, maize, rice, sugar, milk and milk products, knitted rayon in the piece, ju te and jute fab r ics, sisal and sisal fab r ics, textile yarn, fab r ics, and made-up articles all manu- fac tured f rom synthetic fibers or spun glass, cement, uncut dia- monds, cut but not set diamonds, bicycles, fishing nets, aluminum ware, cotton piece goods, gold, and a few other items. Imports from South A f r i c a, Portugal, and all Portuguese territories are prohibited. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly to residents of other Sterling Area countries. Such payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are approved up to established limits by authorized banks. Other sales of foreign exchange require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Persons going abroad, i.e., outside the East A f r i c an currency area, for holidays are per- mitted to take with them EA Sh 1,000 in East A f r i c an currency notes and, on application to a bank, up to the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in other currencies. Persons proceeding direct to Kenya, Uganda, and Zanz ibar may take out any amount in domestic currency notes. Non- resident travelers in transit may take out foreign currency up to the amount they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r i c an common market (see footnote 3) is unrestricted. Exports to South A f r i c a, Portugal, and all Portuguese territories are prohibited. Export proceeds, other than those in Sterling Area currencies, must be collected within six months f rom the date of exportation and must be surrendered. 499 TANZANIA Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely fo r- eign currency notes. Travelers arriving direct f rom Aden, Kenya, Uganda, or Zanzibar may bring in any amount of domestic currency notes; the import of domestic currency notes by other travelers is restricted to EA Sh 1,000 a person. Capital Movements of capital between Tanzania and other Sterling Area countries are free, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are restricted. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzan ia; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment, which in normal circum- stances is given freely. Under the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act 1963, investors in "approved" enterprises are entitled to repatriate profits, proceeds from liquidation, principal and interest on loans received from abroad, and fu ll compensation in the event of na t iona l- ization or expropriation. Changes during 1964 April 11. Agreement was reached among the countries of the East A f r ican common market to subject certain interterritorial trade to export and import quotas. July 8. Imports of ju te and ju te fabrics, sisal and sisal fab r ics and cordage, and bags and sacking of sisal were made subject to specific licensing. July 20. Imports of cement were made subject to specific licensing. July 31. Imports of all cotton piece goods were made subject to specific licensing. August 7. Imports of milk and milk products were made subject to specific licensing. August 28. Imports of bicycles (not motorized) were made subject to specific licensing. September 15. Imports of textile yarn, fabrics, and made-up articles all manufactured f rom synthetic fibers or spun glass were made sub- ject to specific licensing. October 23. Imports of shirts, paints, flat and corrugated iron galvanized sheets, flat and corrugated aluminum sheets and coils, and certain other items required specific license. 500 TANZANIA November 5. Imports of bicycle tires and tubes required specific license. November 13. Imports from and exports to Portugal were prohibited. November 25. The upper limit on the authorized banks' selling rates for sterling in transactions with the public was raised from % per cent to % per cent over parity. December 24. Radio receivers, car radios, and combined radio- record players required specific license. 501 THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Thai Baht 20.80 = US$1. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial trans- ac t ions ). As at December 31, 1964, the market rate for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars was B 20.65 buying, and B 20.84 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of F inance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies. Certain imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; however, payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: T rans fe rab le Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Transferab le Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with f u n ds eligible for remittance abroad in fore ign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. Transfers of baht to and f r om Blocked Accounts require approval, wh ich is granted automatically for certain current payments; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for fo re ign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Tha i land, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported f r e e ly; but import licenses are required for some 79 listed commodities, and for most of these items licenses are not usua l ly granted. All imports of goods originating in Mainland China are prohibited. Imports of tea l e a f, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. 502 THAILAND Payments for imports must be made by letter of credit, unless approval to do otherwise is given. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 3,000 in value can be cleared through the Bangkok customs or goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through other customs stations. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require authorization. In general, exchange is provided free ly. The t rans fer of profits and dividends is permitted f ree ly provided that the company has paid its taxes. Apart f rom fore ign travel, fam i ly maintenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, au thor ized dealers are permitted to approve applica- tions for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equ iva lent of US$140. For foreign travel and fam i ly remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are sub ject to certain maximum limits. For persons traveling abroad, au tho r ized agents may approve exchange allowances of £ stg. 225 or US$630, or £14 5s. 9d. or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater. For business travel, additional fore ign exchange may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to l icens ing ;1 all others may be exported freely. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as fo l lows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of cha rcoal or wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and for other goods exceeding B 3,000 in value through the Bangkok customs or B 5,000 in value through other customs stations. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be sold to authorized agents within seven days of receipt but not later than three months a f ter the date of export. Tourists-require a "certificate of exportation" 1 Gold, platinum, precious stones, certain fer t i l izers, live cattle and other animals, maize, rice and rice products, tin metal and ores, certain o ther minerals, rubber, radioactive materials, salt exported by sea, and, at certain exit points, ducks' eggs, hens' eggs, and chickens. 503 THAILAND to take out articles other than personal effects with a total value in excess of B 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling under the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in foreign currency not exceeding the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 or, for a fam i ly traveling under the same passport, the equivalent of US$1,000 or £ stg. 360. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on l i fe insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of February 10, 1962; this treatment can include a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings. The repatriation of capital is considered on the merits of each case. Changes during 1964 January 15. Importers were henceforth required to purchase locally grown coffee in amounts equal to 10 per cent of the amount of imported coffee, compared with 8 per cent previously. February 14. Import control was reimposed on nickel or nickel alloy coins having similar shape, size, weight, and composition as the one-baht coin. April 16. Importers were henceforth required to purchase locally grown coffee in amounts equal to 15 per cent of the amount of imported coffee, compared with 10 per cent previously. November 23. Tourists were allowed to take out articles other than personal effects with a total value not exceeding B 10,000 without obtaining a "certificate of exportation." December 30. Coated paper weighing not more than 65 grams a square meter required an import license. 504 TOGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are approved by the Exchange Office, which checks the financing and other particulars. Prescription of Currency Togo is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France: those with Ruman ia through Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through For- eign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Iinport Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports f rom all other countries require individual licenses. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 505 TOGO In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program wh ich is determined each year and wh ich includes recommendations by a jo int French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, how- ever, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources are granted. No quotas or f r ee lists have been established. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f r e e l y; those to other countries are sub ject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income acc ru ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties may be remitted abroad, sub ject to supervision. Payments for many other categories of invisibles are also subject to supervision to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. An allowance of up to US$1,000 a person a trip in currencies other than those of the French Franc Area may be made available to resi- dents by the authorized banks for any trip outside that Area; requests for add i t ional amoun ts are granted liberally by the authorities. Repre- sentation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be f inanced w i th f u n ds f r om EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Foreign nationals employed in Togo may remit to the country of their nationality their fu ll basic salary. Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta may take out, without^ limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue w i th in the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in bankno tes or coins up to a maximum of F 1,000 in metro- politan f ranc s, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f rancs, or up to the equ iva lent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f r e e ly; exports to all other countries require licenses. 506 TOGO Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be freely used by the exporters themselves for any payment outside the French Franc Area for wh ich a general or a special license has been issued. The proportions of export proceeds that may be credited to EFAC accounts are 15 per cent for exports to Canada and the United States and 11 per cent for exports to other countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f r om transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities must be collected promptly, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt.2 Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Togo and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between Togo and all other coun- tries require approval. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (fore ign and domes- tic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption f rom import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges, and also treatment of the transfer of proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of old foreign investments, are negotiated by the Government and the investor. 2 For payment of insurance claims, the period is three months. 507 TOGO Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements with Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, which was also applicable to Togo, was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechoslovakia, which was also applicable to Togo, was termi- nated. 508 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Trinidad and Tobago Dollar 1.71429 = US$1. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar circulates concurrently with the West Indian dollar, with which it is at par. The West Indian dollar, wh ich is issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board, has a fixed relationship to sterling of WI$4.80 = £1.2 This corresponds to a relationship to the U.S. dollar of about WI$1.71 = US$1. The Currency Board issues West Indian dollars against sterling at the rate of WI$4.80 = £1 minus a commission of %6 of 1 per cent; it redeems West Indian dollars for sterling at the same rate plus a commission of % of 1 per cent.3 The Board has the power to vary this commission rate between fixed limits but has departed f rom the percentages set out above only on very rare occasions. Conversions of West Indian dollars into sterling and vice versa are the only exchange transactions carried out by the Board. All other exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = £1 and WI$4.80 = £1 and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of sight draf ts, and of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers. The result is a selling rate of TT$4.812 or WI$4.812 per £1 and a buying rate of TT$4.779 or WI$4.779 per £1, for sight d ra f t s. Exchange rates for other con- vertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their quota- tions in terms of sterling on the London marke t. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Ministry of Finance through its .Exchange Control Division; for payments for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds f rom exports, by the Customs and Excise Depart- ment. For payments relating to certain specified invisibles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. 1 In view of the change that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at February 10,1965. 2 The Currency Board issues the West Indian dollar also in Barbados, British Guiana, Leeward Islands, and Windward Islands and there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas. 3 Although the Currency Board may carry out transactions w i th banks and ind iv idua ls, its transactions are, in practice, only with banks. There is a m in imum of WI$25,000 for redemptions of West Indian dollars. 509 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign exchange4 and for control over both current and capital transactions. No control is at present exercised over transfers of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area, but all payments and transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or to an External Account in West Indian dollars require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in West Indian dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in West Indian dollars, or in any foreign currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in West Indian dollars, or in any specified currency.5 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for non- residents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with 4 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments of foreign currency, permission is granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requirement that periodic state- ments of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. 5 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 510 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accoun ts; and with proceeds f rom the sale of gold and foreign currency to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds f rom the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Permission may be given for these balances to be transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. Subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities, they may then be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account in the United Kingdom. Permission is normally given to invest balances on Blocked Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago in local securities which are either irredeem- able or not redeemable within five years f rom the date of purchase. Interest is permitted on balances standing to the credit of Blocked Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago and may be remitted freely to the holders of the accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into various groups. In practice, however, the implementation of the various import regu- lations relating to these groups of countries results in a differential treatment between only two groups: Sino-Soviet bloc countries and other countries. The import regulations include prohibition, state trading, indi- vidual licensing, and open general license. (1) The following imports are prohibited or are subject to stringent control: matches manu fac tu red locally under a monopoly granted by the Government to a private company, coffee and cocoa beans, and beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans. Firearms, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. 511 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported f rom British Guiana under a government contract, at an agreed price.6 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an individual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries f rom which the com- modities are imported. (a) Imports from the United Kingdom and Colonies Group. Except when consigned from and originating in the British West Indies and British Guiana, the following foods are subject to individual licensing: fa ts and oils (edible and noned ib le), sugar, soap (other than toilet soap ), manufactured and sem imanufac tured gold, radium, and specified knitwear. Licenses for these imports are granted on the basis of the estimated domestic need, with account taken of domestic production as well as regional and international agreements. Controls on imports of gold (manufac tured and semimanufactured) are main- tained to curb speculative purchases abroad. This restriction on gold applies also to imports f rom the British West Indies and British Guiana. All other items are imported under open general license. (b) Imports from countries of the so-called Areas I and II.7 For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which includes goods subject to individual licensing. All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list com- prises about 100 tariff items, including, among others, all the items listed under ( a ), above. In practice, however, mainly cheap rayon textiles, poultry, cardboard containers, some plastics, and certain knitted garments are subject to quantitative restriction, the licenses for the remaining goods being granted freely. 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than British Guiana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 7 These areas include the following countries, as listed in the import regulations of Trinidad and Tobago: Area I—Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Repub l ic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. Area II —Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Ceylon, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iceland, India, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jordan, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Morocco, Muscat, Ne ther lands (including Netherlands Antilles and Surinam), New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal and overseas territories, Rhodesia, Rwanda, South Africa, Spain and possessions, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Uruguay, and Zambia. 512 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (c) Imports from Japan. These imports are subject to arrange- ments similar to those described under ( b ), above, the only difference being that the "negative" list in this case contains not only the items given above but also such items as cotton fabrics, certain machinery and equipment, and specified raw materials, foods tuffs, and finished industrial products. In practice, the only items subject to quantitative restriction are those also subject to quantitative restriction when originating in the United Kingdom and Colonies Group or in Areas I and II, as indicated under (a) and ( b ), above. (d) Imports from all other countries. Imports f rom all countries other than those specified under ( a ), ( b ), and ( c ), above, require individual licenses. A distinction is made between "countries of the Sino-Soviet bloc and other countries. Licenses for imports from countries in the latter group are granted in such a way as to accord these imports the same treatment as those from the countries specified under ( a ), ( b ), and ( c ). Licenses for imports from Sino-Soviet bloc countries are granted only for essential goods. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports f rom countries other than those in the Sino-Soviet bloc, no discrimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved. Payments for all imports require an exchange license. If prescrip- tion of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted freely. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. Residents and nonresidents may take out West Indian currency notes and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago 513 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (£250) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, animals, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. The export of petroleum and petroleum products may be authorized under open general license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom current invisibles must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for foreign exchange receipts and expenditures which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in West Indian currency notes and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area are permitted freely, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are closely regulated. However, repayment of com- mercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances (in limited amounts), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. 514 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ordinarily be trans- ferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ); however, nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f ter January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency or ster- ling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested abroad in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable within five years f rom the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of the foreign currency (not necessarily the original foreign currency of investment), or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justified in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in secondary industry. This law provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commercial scale. Every pioneer manufacturer 515 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO is entitled to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds realized from part or all of a direct capital invest- ment made af ter January 1, 1950 by a nonresident in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the non- resident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (a) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an* investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. Changes during 1964 December 14. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago started operations. A new currency, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, was issued at par with the West Indian dollar. The West Indian dollar would remain legal tender until January 1, 1966, or any earlier date that the Minister of Finance might determine. In the meantime, the two currencies would circulate concurrently. NOTE.—The following change took place in 1965: February 10. An initial par value for the Trinidad and Tobago dollar of TT&1.71429 = US$1 was established with the International Monetary Fund. 516 TUNISIA Exchange Rale System The par value is Tunisian Dinar 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the dinar in relation to the French f ranc is fixed at D 0.10634 per F 1. Buying and selling rates for other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market, by taking the average of the different rates quoted in Paris and converting it into dinars at the French franc /d inar exchange rate. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia, but some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Import quotas are determined by the Office of the Secretary of State for the Plan and for Finance, which issues import licenses and export licenses af ter they have been approved by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is one of the territories of the French Franc Area. For payment purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the bilateral group, countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements (Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia); and (3) the area of convertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that A rea; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian dinars with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement francs with Mainland Ch ina; and with countries in the area of convertibility, generally in convertible currenc iesx or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Certain commercial transactions with India must be settled in Indian rupees. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: French Franc Area External Accounts (EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 517 TUNISIA accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French f rancs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or convertible currencies (see footnote 1 ); with transfers from other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely with French f rancs transferred by a nonresident to the account ho lde r; with proceeds in French francs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payable either in French francs or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are temporarily staying in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited freely with proceeds f rom sales of French f rancs or convertible currencies; with transfers f rom other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distributions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds from sales of Tunisian secu- rities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repayment of loans granted f rom the same account. They may be debited freely for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his fam i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for purchase in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchase, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with pay- ments for licensed imports from these countries and with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange f rom the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts, and from these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts, may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with payments for licensed imports f rom these countries, with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with 518 TUNISIA transfers f rom Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia which are due from the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the French Franc A rea ). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets, and with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guarantee. They may be debited for the purchase of securities, par- ticipations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the administration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the account ho lder; the granting of credits to residents; and gifts to social, cultural, and religious institutions established in Tunisia. Ac- counts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, wh i le those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be freely debited for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., credit or debit operations resulting from the sale or purchase of business concerns, or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of convertibility and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the former to the latter. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for for- eigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and ga infu l ly employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. 519 TUNISIA Imports and Import Payments Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports f rom the United States under Public Law 480. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of commodities fa l l ing within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fru i ts, etc.). Such imports are subject to the same licensing arrangements that are applicable to private imports. Imports of certain goods f rom any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc Area) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. Apart f rom the "prohibited" imports and imports under state trading, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. Exceptions are the following, which are subject to quantitative restrictions and require individual licenses: (1) imports of goods that are subject to global quotas applicable to all countries except the United States, and (2) imports f rom France of goods included in a list agreed upon between the French and the Tunisian authorities and which are subject to quotas. Among the goods included in the list are perfumes and cosmetics, wood, leather goods, woven fabr ics, certain clothing, jewelry, certain iron and steel products, air conditioners, washing and drying machines, motor vehicles, and clocks and watches. Pay- ments for imports f rom France or other countries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization from the Central Bank. Such authorization is always granted, but may sometimes be delayed when the Central Bank is short of French francs. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to countries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liberalized goods, for which licenses are granted auto- matically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported from any countries other than the United States; (3) goods subject to individual licensing, which are admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agreements; and (4) goods for which quotas are announced in an import program applicable to the United States. Liberalized goods valued at less than D 200 and certain spare parts valued at less than D 50 are free of license. All imports from 520 TUNISIA countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or of bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be recorded with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 5, 10, and 15 per cent apply to 300 sections of the t a r i f f; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharma- ceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank. Provided that the appropriate documentation' is submitted, this approval is given for payments for most current transactions, including remittances of profits, dividends, and interest due to non- residents. Payments for such items as business travel and family maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50. The allocation may be taken in the form of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to license. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to other parts o f ' t he French Franc Area and exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries may be made free ly; all other exports require export licenses or exchange commitments. For all exports, exporters must give undertakings to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date payment is due, and in any event, within 100 days from the date of shipment, unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used freely for business travel. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. 521 TUNISIA A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil, salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on calcium phosphates, super- phosphates, metallurgical ores, scrap iron, raw lead, and lead residuals. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate all amounts derived f rom services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the t rans fer of principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia are granted foreign exchange up to D 3,500 upon leaving Tunisia per- manen t ly; amounts in excess of this limit are credited to Capital Accounts. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of nontransferable foreign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts.2 All capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, fo rb idd en; in some cases, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Changes during 1964 January 1. A system was introduced of French Franc Area External Accounts for residents of other parts of the French Franc Area and French Franc Area Internal Accounts for persons residing in other parts of the French Franc Area but staying temporarily in Tunisia. The system of Capital Accounts was extended also to residents of the French Franc Area. April 14. Certain essential items previously subject to quota when imported from France were liberalized. 2 However, certain special arrangements regarding capital transfers by Italian and French nationals have been agreed upon with Italy and France. 522 TUNISIA April 25. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Hungary. April SO. A direct bilateral payments agreement was signed with Rumania; previously, Tunisia utilized the payments agreement which France maintained with Rumania. September 23. An initial par value for the Tunisian dinar of D 1 = US$1.90476 was established with the International Monetary Fund. September 28. The existing advance import deposit requirements were terminated. Milk, dairy products, and pharmaceuticals were exempted from import taxes. Special taxes of 10 per cent and 15 per cent were levied on certain exports. September 28. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from D 30 to D 50 a person a year. September 28. Exporters were permitted to retain part of their export proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. October 1. The trade and tariff agreement of September 5, 1959 with France expired. Goods of French origin and provenance became subject to the m in imum tar iff of customs duties. December 20. The bilateral payments agreement with Iraq was terminated. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Mali was terminated. 523 TURKEY 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Turkish Liras 9.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency concerned. A tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange pur- chased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transportation. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in con- junction with the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of per- mitted imports and the determination as to whether they should be admitted free of restriction or under quantitative limitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, or, for some categories of imports under quotas, by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Industry. The Central Bank issues import licenses. Certain imports require the permission of the competent ministry or department, primarily for public security, agricultural, or health reasons. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise and invisibles with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within this period. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchan ts), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), and government departments. Private individuals and corpo- 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 31,1965. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Chambers of Commerce), Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 524 TURKEY rate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" before submitting through the authorized banks applications for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. However, exporters, operators of mining undertakings and tourist establishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Goods may be imported only in accordance with the provisions of import programs, wh ich are planned for a year and announced for six-month periods in January and July. The import programs classify imports in three categories: (1) a list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued freely; (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas; and (3) goods that can be imported within the quotas established under bilateral agreements. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas in principle apply to imports f rom countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements. Goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberalization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations f rom U.S. aid fund s, while other goods on these lists may be imported only with U.S. aid funds and only f rom specified countries.3 An over-all foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the author- ities for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted at any time through authorized banks; these banks prepare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. Applications to import under the global quotas must be made through an authorized bank within one month of the date of publica- tion of the quotas. The global quota list distinguishes between quotas for registered importers and quotas for industrialists. Quotas for importers are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis. Any one importer may not receive more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular commodity, and he must apply for a license within two months of receiving an allocation. Quotas for industrialists are allocated on the basis of such criteria as capacity, output, and previous performance; after the applicant has secured an allocation (i.e., has 8 Countries other than Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South A f r ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 525 TURKEY been issued a "certificate of need"), he has to obtain an import license from the Central Bank within three months. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange pay- ment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed from U.S. aid funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange applied for. For payments against documents or commodities for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to prepay 50 per cent of the value of the import. Guarantee deposits are payable in advance as follows: for goods on liberalization List I, 70 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable, and on List II, 100 per cent; for imports under global quotas or bilateral quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by industrialists, and 30 per cent by importers, at the time application to import is made. The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been imported and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. Imports of luxury goods and of automobiles (including station wagons and panel trucks) are not permitted except as indicated below, but foreign cars may be sold in Turkey by diplomats and by Turkish nationals who have imported them without allocation of for- eign exchange. Such sales are subject to a tax of LT 2,000 to LT 6,000 depending on the age and weight of the ca r; cars less than five years old are exempt from this tax. Imports of medicines, baby foods, and other commodities for personal, family, and official use may be effected freely within limits equivalent to LT 500 for private persons and LT 1,500 for official institutions. A national returning permanently from abroad may import single items of certain goods, such as automobiles less than six years old, tape recorders, radios, and refrigerators, as well as personal effects. However, the importa- tion of a car is subject to the requirement that at the time of his return his savings, as a result of his sojourn abroad, amount to the equivalent of US$800 or more. If his accumulated savings amount to less than US$800 he may bring in personal effects without penalty, but all other imports are subject to a quota of LT 1,000. If the return- ing national whose savings at the time of entry are less than US$800 526 TURKEY wishes to import goods valued at more than LT 1,000 but less than the equivalent of US$800, he may do so subject to payment of duty on all items in excess of the quota, excluding immediate personal effects. Each Turkish national who returns to Turkey after having been employed abroad under arrangements made by the State Employ- ment Office may import the tools of his trade up to a value of LT 10,000, excluding cars; he may also bring in other goods to the value of LT 3,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. These are granted liberally for the following, provided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including ship- ping costs), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, con- sulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks7 commis- sions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies7 payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to approved foreign investments is permitted freely. Interest on long- term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without hav- ing obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel by residents (irrespective of nationality) is the equivalent of US$200 a calendar year (US$111 for persons under 18 years of age). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the amount of income of, or income tax paid by, the applicant firm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the neces- sary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the main one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is payable on all 527 TURKEY exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 200 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Non- resident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a docu- ment showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in convertible currencies are subject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported, within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Firms and individuals who have purchased foreign banknotes and travelers checks from, or received them as payment from, foreign travelers are required to surrender them to an authorized exchange dealer within one month. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles of a value exceeding LT 5,000 must show proof that they have con- verted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 500. Capital Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Foreign com- panies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import 528 TURKEY the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; if such earnings exceed LT 5,000 a year, any excess is blocked. Also, some funds are blocked in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959). Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the benefit of third parties to be used for tourist trips on a collective basis in Turkey; for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for blood relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except under the provisions of Article 9 of the Paris Agree- ment and for investment in the tourist industry. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the fo l low ing con- ditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used,4 and (2) the investor must undertake not to request trans- fer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are con- sidered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Normally, such blocked funds may not be trans- ferred to others except by legal succession, to legal entities, or to real persons residing abroad. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, as amended, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Registered shares or stock certificates issued under this law are freely transferable between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treat- ment. * This condition does not apply to funds blocked under the Paris Agreement. 529 TURKEY Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Changes during 1964 January 2. The off ic ial selling rate was changed from LT 9.045 to LT 9.08 per US$1. January 4. The twelfth import program, covering the first half of 1964, was announced: (1) Some 18 items were transferred from the liberalized list to the quota list. (2) The system of guarantee deposits for imports on the liberalized list was changed and the general level of guarantee was raised: imports were divided into three categories, for which the guarantee deposits were fixed at 50 per cent, 60 per cent, and 70 per cent, respectively. (3) Guarantee deposits payable by importers for goods on the quota list were increased f rom 20 to 30 per cent but the deposit payable by industrialists remained unchanged at 10 per cent. (4) The sliding scale for guarantee deposits payable by importers of goods on the quota list where the value of applications exceeded by five times the amount of an individual commodity quota was abolished. June 1. Export drawbacks, previously calculated in fixed amounts per unit exported, were calculated as percentages of the f.o.b. value. A flat rate tax drawback equivalent to 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value was granted on exports of honey, dried fruits, nuts, tobacco, and mineral ores. July 4- The thirteenth import program, covering the second half of 1964, was announced: (1) Thirty-six commodities or groups of commodities were transferred f rom the liberalized list to the global quota list. (2) The remaining items on the liberalized list were grouped in two categories instead of the three under the twelfth program, for the purpose of determining the rates of guarantee deposits. Guarantee deposits for liberalized imports were raised to 70 per cent for items on List I and to 100 per cent for items on List II. (3) It was stated that payment for liberalized imports might be made only by letter of credit. (4) Industrialists who pay against documents or commodities for imports on the global quota list were required to prepay 50 per cent of the value of the import. September 16. The import without allocation of foreign exchange of automobiles more than five years old was prohibited. September 22. The bilateral trade and payments agreement with Iran was terminated. 530 October 20. The agreement under which settlements with Greece were channeled through centralized accounts was terminated. December 1. The Treaty of Association with the European Eco- nomic Community entered into force. TURKEY NOTE.—The following changes became effective early in 1965: January 4- The fourteenth import program, covering the first ha lf of 1965, was announced: (1) Minor changes were made in the liberal- ized and global quota lists. (2) The amounts allocated for some items on the global quota list were considerably reduced. (3) The rates of guarantee and advance deposit requirements were maintained with- out change. January 4- Exports of tobacco and dried figs became subject to price registration. January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Finland was terminated. 531 UGANDA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Uganda has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the East A f r ican Shilling, which is officially maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relation- ship EA Sh 1 = US$0.14. It circulates freely in the East A f r ican currency area, which comprises Aden, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the public, the East A f r i c an Currency Board stands ready to issue East A f r ican currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r ican currency. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the publk has to deal through authorized banks; the buying and selling rates for such transactions are within % per cent and % per cent, respectively, of parity. Banks in Uganda base their rates for other currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing standard alloca- tions of foreign exchange is" delegated to authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Ordinance. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Uganda before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in External Account sterling, in East A f r ican shillings to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in External Account sterling, in East A f r ican shillings f rom an External Account, or in any convertible foreign currency. 532 UGANDA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by Uganda residents to Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East A f r ican shillings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Uganda residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda. Accounts in East A f r ican shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency from authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities from the majority of countries may be imported without a license. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common marke t1 is unrestricted. Goods from specified areas or groups of countries outside the East Afr ican common market may be imported without a license; and goods from countries specified in the External Trade Ordinance (Import Restricted Goods) may be imported under a specific license. Specific import licenses are also required for all goods originating in Mainland China, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Korea, and the Soviet bloc, and for imports from any country of edible oils and fats (except butter, margarine, and shortenings), cereals and cereal products (except rice, breakfast foods, and nutritious pastes), beet and cane sugar, glucose and syrups, ju te and sisal bags, sacks and fabrics of jute (including hessian and tw ine), gold, jewelry, unwrought precious metals, uncut xThe East African common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. Prior to October 1964, there were no import restrictions in mterterritorial trade. 533 UGANDA precious stones, military and ex-military vehicles, and cement. When the importer has obtained a license from the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the importer that the goods have been shipped from the country of origin or imported into East Afr ica. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on the transfer of funds from Uganda to any other Sterling Area country. Powers have been delegated to authorized banks to approve payments outside the Sterling Area for invisibles, upon production of evidence of debt. Residents of Uganda traveling abroad, i.e., outside the East African currency area, may take with them East A f r ican shilling notes not exceeding EA Sh 200 in value and, in addition, not more than the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in currency notes of the country of destination. If travel is outside the Sterling Area, banks are authorized to issue to each resident of Uganda foreign currency or travel instruments not exceeding the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in value a year upon production of travel documents and a passport; sums in excess of this amount for business travel outside the Sterling Area must receive specific approval from the exchange control authorities. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries outside the Sterling Area countries who come to work in Uganda may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly mainte- nance, savings, etc. Fees for education and other purposes may also be remitted upon production of evidence of debt; no specific amounts have been set for these purposes. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a g i f t, to a country outside the Sterling Area, more than EA Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of butter, wheat, flour, and certain foodstuffs grown in Uganda, including maize, millet, beans, peas, cassava, sugar, and jaggery, require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East African common market (see footnote 1) is unrestricted. Export proceeds, other than those in Sterling Area currencies, must be offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into East A f r ican shillings. 534 UGANDA Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of domestic currency notes must not exceed EA Sh 1,000 for each traveler. Capital Movements of capital between Uganda and other Sterling Area countries are not restricted. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain "approved status'7 for the investment, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Changes during 1964 April 11. Agreement was reached among the countries of the East Afr ican common market to subject certain interterritorial trade to export and import quotas. October. Measures were taken to implement the decision of April 11, above, by restricting imports f rom Kenya of ale, beer, stout, and cement. November 25. The upper limit on the authorized banks' selling rate for sterling in transactions with the public was raised f rom % per cent to y2 per cent over parity. 535 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United A rab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30, but an exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt at the end of December 1964 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the Central Bank. An Export Board controls exports. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible cu r r en cy ;l in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payor's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange control regulations of the United Arab Republic as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and IT. S. dollars. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with the 536 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic, there are three main types of nonresident accounts: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the account; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Non- resident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts and payments abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to any other country may not be made without Central Exchange Control authorization. These following countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Ceylon, Mainland China, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, India ( for trade in certain commodities), Iraq, Kenya, Nor th Korea, Lebanon, Libya, Mali, Mongolia, Morocco, Niger, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Somalia, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, Yemen, and Yugoslavia. 537 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained—with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers may be made between blocked accounts of the same nationality. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited for investments in U.A.R. Government loans and in registered shares in nominative form of companies established in the United Arab Republic, and for sub- scriptions to increases in capital of U.A.R. companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a fairly large number of goods from any source, and all imports from Israel, are prohibited. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors. Foreign exchange alloca- tions for imports of each sector are made on a weekly basis by an Interministerial Committee. The total weekly allocation for imports is determined after deducting f rom the actual exchange earnings of the previous week the foreign debt service obligations and other payments for invisibles falling due in the subsequent week. The authorities in charge of each sector determine the use to be made of its allocation for imports. They also choose whether imports should be made directly by them or through the state-owned importing agencies. The payment is arranged through the bank designated for the sector. Imports of personal baggage and imports not requiring foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Office. A statistical tax of 10 per cent is payable on imports. Advance payments exceeding LE 100 for imports require the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. 538 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for payments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current pay- ments. Expenses for permitted travel, family maintenance, film royal- ties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. For travel to Lebanon, the allowance is LE 100; for travel to other countries, it is LE 75. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remittances, government payments, and transfers of funds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound notes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remaining foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared, but residents may not take out foreign banknotes in excess of LE 20 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be submitted. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provi- sions of the relevant agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Account. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic from abroad may not import Egyptian banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to 539 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside the United Arab Republic require individual licenses, which normally are not granted except for transfers to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Private capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between residents of the same monetary area are permitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue, (2) the value of l ife or endowment policies on surrender or at maturity, (3) matured mortgages, and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income—may be released from a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account, except that capital transfers to Switzerland may exceed LE 5,000. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish the limits for transfers of profits. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. Changes during 1964 March 21. The statistical tax applying to imports was raised from 5 per cent to 10 per cent. 540 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC April 10. An exchange tax of 5 per cent was applied to all payments for invisibles and capital transfers except students' remittances, govern- ment payments, and transfers of funds for pilgrimages. June 28. The bilateral payments agreement with Sudan was terminated. October 1. A revision of import procedures came into effect. Import licensing, which previously had applied to nearly all imports, was largely dispensed with. Licenses already issued would be cancelled. Foreign exchange available for imports would be rationed each week to the several sectors of the economy by an Interministerial Com- mittee. Each sector would then determine the use to be made of its allocation. The import of personal baggage and imports not requiring foreign exchange would remain subject to license. 541 UNITED KINGDOM1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Pound Sterling 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per £1. Market rates for spot transactions in other convertible or externally convertible currencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian and New Zealand pounds) are free to move within a range of rates resulting from the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Authorized banks may, subject to the observance of limits upon the accumulation of spot foreign exchange, carry out forward transactions at rates which may fluctuate under the influence of market forces. Transactions with resident customers may only be entered into for approved purposes. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market rates of exchange. There is also a market in which the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as investment currency or security dollars) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities2 owned by residents, and from the receipt from abroad by residents of certain capital funds, may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate; on May 4, 1965, that premium was about 9 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities and for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area for which official exchange is not provided. In another market the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as property currency) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property (mainly houses and apartments) owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates, also attracting a premium over the official market rate; on May 4,1965, that premium was about 22 per cent. These funds are available, with specific permission, for the purchase of a house or apartment for personal use in a country outside the Sterling Area, for attendant expenses, and for improvements to such property. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1In view of certain changes that took place in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at May 4,1965. *The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is to be read as meaning securities expressed in a currency of a country outside the Sterling Area. 542 UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control).3 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling Area. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most payments. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area must be in sterling from an External Account or in any specified currency,4 or in any other foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for sterling. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other coun- 8 The Sterling Area comprises, in addition to the United Kingdom, Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Cyprus, Gambia, Ghana, Iceland, India, the Irish Republic, Jamaica, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, the State of Kuwait, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South West Africa, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Western Samoa, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously mentioned, except Canada. *The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and ILS. dollars. 543 UNITED KINGDOM tries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Blocked Accounts (see be low ), the sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency (including banknotes) or gold, and with sterling banknotes mailed f rom outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency (includ- ing banknotes) or gold. Blocked Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of all countries outside the Sterling Area except Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (residents of these three countries may transfer all their ster- ling funds to their respective countries). Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom most sterling securi- ties.6 The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are permitted freely. Blocked Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. The rates for blocked sterling, also called security sterling or switch sterling, remained within 1 per cent of parity between December 31,1963 and May 4,1965. The U.K. authori- ties permit nonresidents of the Sterling Area who hold blocked funds in other parts of the Sterling Area to transfer these to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom, subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities of the country concerned, and to invest or negotiate the blocked sterling in accordance with the above. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar 5 Sterling securities are those securities that are not considered foreign currency securities. 544 UNITED KINGDOM Area,6 Japan, the Eastern Area,7 and the Relaxation Area (all other countries) .8 Imports f rom countries other than those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantitative restric- tion, with the fo l low ing exceptions: (a) f rom other Sterling Area countries, 13 commodities or groups of commod i t ies ;9 (b) from the Relaxation Area, 4 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (a) above; (c) from the Dollar Area, 6 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above; and (d) from Japan, 5 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above. Imports f rom countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantitative restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manu fac tu red and semimanufactured goods. Imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland of certain other manufac tured goods also are admitted without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Permission to import from countries outside the Sterling Area, whether under Open General License or some other fo rm of license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign exchange or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sterling Area; neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment exceeds £2,000 and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance. Most imports from all sources are subject to a temporary import charge of 10 per cent of the landed value. Payment for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the 6 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 7 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 8 Following the Commercial Treaty with Japan (announced in November 1962), Japan will ultimately be treated as being in the Relaxation Area. For a transitional period, certain items will continue to be restricted. "Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license for statistical purposes only. 545 UNITED KINGDOM Sterling Area require exchange control authorization, which is granted freely, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The comple- tion of an exchange control fo rm is required for payments exceeding £250. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to established limits. Appli- cations for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents against payment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency. An allowance of up to £250 a person a year in foreign exchange may be made available to residents without formality by banks and authorized travel agents for personal travel outside the Sterling Area; they may grant further amounts not exceeding £250 a trip subject to completion of a currency declaration by the traveler. For travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of up to £250 a trip may similarly be made available without formality by banks and authorized travel agents; in excess of that amount they may issue, upon completion of a currency declaration by the traveler, an allowance of £20 a day, up to a maximum of £1,500 for any one journey. Applications for larger amounts or for more than £250 within a period of a month must be referred to the Bank of England, which approves them provided that it is satisfied that the exchange is required for genuine travel purposes. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport. In addition, travelers may take with them up to £25 in sterling banknotes, which may be exchanged abroad for foreign currency for travel expenditure only; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, require export licenses. All other exports are free of license. Exchange control proce- dure is waived for exports not exceeding £2,000 f.o.b., except gifts in kind, for which the upper limit is £100 f.o.b. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment within six months of shipment, unless special permission has been granted to collect at a later date. Exchange receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 546 UNITED KINGDOM Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts in specified currencies (see footnote 4) on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of foreign exchange may, however, be permitted to retain their exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. Also, residents are permitted to retain, for use during their next trip abroad, the unused portion of any previous travel exchange allocation, for a period of three months af ter the exchange was originally obtained. British and foreign banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area on capital account (except the foreign exchange proceeds of gifts or charitable donations, capital distributions under wills or trusts, or restitution payments, irrespective of whether they are received in the form of cash, foreign currency securities, or other foreign assets) may, in certain circumstances and with permis- sion, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency or security dollars once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If permission is not forthcoming and the foreign exchange is one of the specified currencies (see footnote 4 ), it must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in specified currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.10 Applications to have regarded as investment currency any foreign currency belong- ing to residents of the United Kingdom who are " exempted foreign nationals" are normally considered only in respect of assets held at the time of designation as resident of the United Kingdom, or of securities acquired through the investment currency market. Proceeds of a capital nature in currencies other than specified currencies are not subject to surrender; however, they may be disposed of only with permission, which may be obtained for the use of such funds by the recipient for investments and for other payments outside the Sterling Area. 10 A similar 25 per cent requirement applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securities derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 547 UNITED KINGDOM The sale proceeds in foreign currency of property situated outside the Sterling Area and owned by a resident of the United Kingdom may, with permission, be regarded as eligible for the purchase by U.K. residents of property outside the Sterling Area; such funds are known as property currency. Residents of the United Kingdom may make capital transfers without restriction to other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. For direct investments outside the Sterling Area, official exchange is made available only where the project is designed to bring a substantial continuing return to the United Kingdom's balance of payments, e.g., in additional export earnings, and where there are good prospects that the over-all return to the balance of payments will within two to three years equal or exceed the capital outflow. Direct investments which do not satisfy this criterion may, with authorization, be financed with investment currency or by suitable long-term borrow- ing outside the Sterling Area. The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area may, also with specific approval, be made from another U.K. resident for sterling or from a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not mainte- nance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents: so also are capital payments under l i fe and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies. Residents emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £5,000 in foreign exchange for a fam i ly unit. An additional amount of £3,600 for a family unit is permitted to be transferred at annual intervals thereafter if the emi- grant is, at the time of his emigration from the United Kingdom, a national of a country outside the Sterling Area and is returning to that country for permanent residence. Emigrants are, on their departure from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their remaining assets are treated accordingly. The exceptions are that any sterling balances not used for the settling-in allowance, any proceeds at maturity of sterling securities that are redeemed during the period of the next five years, and certain other sterling capital payments which would normally be transferable to a nonresident are subject to restriction but 548 UNITED KINGDOM may be credited to a Blocked Account. Sums so credited are realizable as security sterling. Emigrants to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are permitted to transfer all their funds. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign exchange received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market. With respect to new investment (as opposed to take- overs or participation in an existing business), the authorities must be satisfied that an acceptable proportion of the capital subscription will be made by foreign remittance. A direct investment by a nonresident made a f ter January 1, 1950 with the approval of the exchange control authorities may be sold or otherwise liquidated, and the entire proceeds thereof, including any capital appreciation, which are due to the nonresident may be repatriated at any time. Payments abroad that are due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations are also permitted. Other payments in respect of nonresident-owned capital investment, except that owned by residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, are normally credited to Blocked Accounts. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent from the Treasury before borrowing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permis- sion is freely given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufacturing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U.K. economy. Transactions in securities of all types may be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom. Residents are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to rein- vest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area for which official exchange is not provided. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be 549 UNITED KINGDOM purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" and certain other operators may on appli- cation be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement for certain of their operations. Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of invest- ment currency in the form of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange.11 U.K. investment trusts are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency outside the Sterling Area at long term, for the purpose of making portfolio investments in foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of foreign currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations from buying any security in the United Kingdom, or selling any security payable in a Sterling Area currency, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to sell other securi- ties in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. U.K. companies do not require prior authorization to issue sterling bearer securities. Nonresidents may buy any securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against payment from an External Accoun t; against payment f rom a Blocked Account they may buy most sterling securities. Nonresidents may purchase officially quoted foreign currency securities with sterling from an External Account and may export them from the United Kingdom; such securities may not, however, be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or reinvested in a sterling security n Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final maturity) or in six-month Treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money market paper without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 550 UNITED KINGDOM having at least five years to maturity (special facilities apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, dividends, etc., from such securities and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable may be remitted to the country of residence of the owner or credited to an External Account. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Changes during 1964 During the year, the numbers of commodities subject to quantitative restriction when imported from the Dollar Area and from Japan were further reduced. March 20. Hong Kong and 15 other territories for whose international relations the Government of the United Kingdom is responsible applied the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade between themselves and Japan. April 3. The facility introduced by a Notice of October 17, 1963— which indicated that the Treasury would consider applications from, inter alia, central governments in the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and borrowers in EFTA countries whose issues were guaran- teed by their governments, for the issue of sterling loans on the London market —was extended to Finland. April 6. The property dollar previously used for the individual matching of purchases and sales by U.K. residents of certain types of real estate outside the Sterling Area was abolished. Individuals resident in the United Kingdom were permitted, subject to individual authoriza- tion, to finance purchases of a single house or apartment for personal use in non-Sterling Area countries with investment currency. The foreign exchange proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all direct investments in non-Sterling Area countries could, with permission, be sold in the investment currency market or reinvested; previously, such proceeds had to be surrendered at the rates ruling in the official market if the investment had been made since September 3, 1939. April 7. In accordance with a new trade agreement with Czecho- slovakia, certain manufactured goods were freed from quota restriction; previously, most imports of manufactured goods from countries in the Eastern Area had been subject to quantitative restriction. 551 UNITED KINGDOM May 1. Specific licenses were required for imports of cotton textiles from all sources, except those originating in U.K. dependencies, certain traditional supplying countries in Western Europe and North America, and those countries where import licensing arrangements under existing limitation agreements and quota controls continued to operate as before, namely, all countries in the Sino-Soviet bloc, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Portugal, and Yugoslavia. Previously, cotton textiles subject to individual import license were certain woven cotton manufac tures originating in, or consigned f rom, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, India, Korea, Macao, and Pakistan. July 1. A system of minimum import prices for cereals and cereal products was introduced. Variable import levies (general or shipment levies and country levies) would be applied to shipments supplied at lower prices. July 13. The Bank of England's specific permission in writing was required for certain transactions in foreign currency securities and investment currency. September 1. Imports of certain ju te goods from any source outside the Eastern Area were freed from quantitative restriction. October 26. Exports of U.K. produce or manufactures became eligible for rebates of sums broadly equivalent to the amounts of certain indirect taxes entering into the cost of production. The rebates would be granted mainly to various broad industrial categories of goods. Rebates would not be payable when the total value of goods exported by an applicant was £2,000 or less in any one year. October 27. A temporary import charge of 15 per cent of the landed value was imposed on all imports from all sources, with the exception of foodstuffs, feedstuffs, fue l, unmanufac tured tobacco, and basic raw materials. November 11. Sixteen additional categories of goods were exempted f rom the import charge, retroactive to October 27, 1964. NOTE.—The following changes took place in 1965: January 1. Imports from Japan of sewing machines, binoculars, microscopes, lenses, fishing tackle, and cigarette lighters no longer required individual import licenses. January 19. Details were released of the tax rebate scheme for exports. The rates of the rebate would for the various industry groups 552 UNITED KINGDOM range between 1 per cent and S1/^ per cent, with an average of about 1.9 per cent. March 15. Imports of refined sugar required a specific import license. April 7. The regulations concerning the investment currency market were changed. When U.K. residents (or other Sterling Area residents operating through U.K. banks or brokers) sold or presented for redemp- tion foreign currency securities, whether in the United Kingdom or outside the Sterling Area, the equivalent in specified currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds had, with a few exceptions, to be exchanged for sterling at the official market rate of exchange; the balance of the proceeds continued to be available as investment currency. This 25 per cent requirement also applied to the sale or liquidation proceeds of direct investments outside the Sterling Area. The following categories of foreign currency accruals to Sterling Area residents no longer were eligible for disposal through the investment currency market: (1) gifts and charitable donations; (2) receipts under wills and trusts; (3) assets acquired by "exempted foreign nationals" after they were designated residents of the United Kingdom; and (4) restitution payments. A property currency market was re-established. U.K. residents could no longer buy property outside the Sterling Area with investment currency. Except where such property was being purchased from another U.K. resident for sterling, residents could use only the proceeds of the sale outside the Sterling Area of property situated outside the Sterling Area and already under U.K. ownership. Foreign currency borrowing was no longer permitted for private purchases of such property. The criteria for the allocation of official exchange for direct invest- ment projects outside the Sterling Area were made more stringent. A stricter control was imposed on the issue and use of foreign exchange for all forms of travel outside the Sterling Area, but genuine travel expenditure remained unrestricted. The amount of sterling banknotes that travelers could take out was reduced from £50 to £25. The customs authorities intensified their checks to ensure that export proceeds were received in the proper form and within the proper period. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were added to the list of specified currencies. All securities payable or optionally payable in a specified currency were designated as prescribed securities. The requirement that sterling securities must, if purchased in the Sterling Area for non- residents, be paid for with External Account sterling if these securities were also prescribed securities was amended to permit purchase with Blocked Account sterling. 553 UNITED KINGDOM April 8. The Secretary of State for Economic Affa irs addressed a letter to the chairmen of some 300 leading companies urging industry to cut back overseas investment projects that would not yield quick or substantial returns to the balance of payments. It was also suggested that a greater proportion of overseas earnings be remitted to the United Kingdom. April 28. The temporary import charge was reduced to 10 per cent. May 4. The Bank of England announced that it was prepared to consider applications on behalf of residents of the United Kingdom or of other parts of the Sterling Area to treat as investment currency, subject to fulfillment of the 25 per cent requirement, capital funds accruing in foreign currency and falling into the following categories: (1) the proceeds of sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling Area; (2) cash balances of immigrants on redesignation as residents of the Sterling Area; (3) savings f rom earnings of residents of the Sterling Area who have been employed outside the Sterling Area for not less than two years immediately prior to the application; (4) the capital proceeds of l i fe and endowment policies; and (5) other items of a capital nature, except gifts, charitable donations, capital distributions under wills or trusts, and restitution payments. The distinction, for purposes of reinvestment of investment currency in foreign currency securities, between the proceeds of prescribed and nonprescribed securities was removed. Investment currency could temporarily be invested in short-term paper without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of such paper. Investment currency held after May 4 for a continuous period of six months would cease to be investment currency, unless an amount of investment currency in the form of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held was, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. The 25 per cent requirement had to be fulfilled on all sales for sterling as investment currency of investment currency acquired after May 4. Instructions were issued concerning the calculation and fulfillment of the 25 per cent requirement. "Small bargains" not exceeding £10 on behalf of Sterling Area owners were exempt from the requirement. When the investment currency to be purchased was different from that realized on sale, the conversion rate would be the cross rate in the official market, but where no rate was available in the official markets in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, the free market rate abroad could be used. 554 UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15% x grains of gold %0 fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of handling charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold f rom any source and sells it to governments, central banks, and, under certain circumstances, international institutions, for the settle- ment of international balances and other legitimate monetary pur- poses. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2 ,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Controls The Treasury Department deals with license applications for transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transac- tions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quotas for certain commodities, including lead and zinc. Import quotas on specified dairy products and certain wheat and wheat products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses and special permits, respectively. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and most petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, or North Vietnamese origin, Chinese-type merchandise f rom other areas, as well as all goods containing Cuban components, and all goods imported from or through Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are subject to license. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton 555 UNITED STATES waste, and cotton products, wheat and wheat products, specified dairy products, and peanuts. These import quotas and those for lead, z inc, and sugar (pursuant to special legislation) are on a coun try-of-produc t ion basis. Under the Philippines Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955, import duties applicable to the Philippines are 20 per cent of the general mos t-favored-na t ion rate on all produc ts; imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas; and for Philippine cigars, tobacco, coconut oil, and buttons, the preferential tariff rate applies only to a specific quantity of imports. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement. The Arrangement authorizes importing countries to request exporting countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions. The United States has concluded comprehensive bilateral agreements with respect to the cotton textile trade with certain m a jor supplying countries, as well as a number of restraint arrangements with certain other countries for specific cotton textile products. In most of these cases, the exporting country limits its exports of cotton textiles to the U.S. marke t; in a few cases, the United States has imposed import restrictions. Tariff quotas are applied on imports of woolen textiles and a number of other products. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, except those imported overland (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or r a i l ), which are not restricted. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions wh ich are permitted only under license: these are pay- ments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (except designated nonstrategic goods) to countries in the European Soviet bloc (except Poland and Rum an i a ), all exports (except publications and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam are subject to validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials to other countries (except Canada) also require validated licenses. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have f rom time to time been subject to control for supply reasons; as at December 31, 1964, walnut logs were under "short supply" export control. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. 556 UNITED STATES Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except where they involve Ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, except to the extent that the provisions referred to above regarding Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are involved. U.S. purchasers of foreign securities are subject to an interest equalization tax of 15 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 2% per cent to 15 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations with a period remaining to maturity of three years or more. Ma jor exemptions f rom the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed countries, the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such con- sequences for a foreign country as to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, and purchases f rom other U.S. holders. Changes during 1964 February 14. Walnut logs were placed under "short supply" export control. May 5. Payments and transfers involving the authorities or nationals of North Viet-Nam were prohibited except as authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury. July 14. Rumania was removed f rom the group of countries to wh ich exports of most goods require validated licenses. September 2. The Interest Equalization Tax Act became law, retroactive (sub ject to exceptions) to July 19, 1963. A Presidential Order provided for the exclusion of original or new Canadian issues as required for international monetary stability. October 15. Sugar was removed f rom the "short supply" export control. 557 UPPER VOLTA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r a n c, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange trans- actions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r anc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax is payable on all payments equivalent to more than CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except payments made by the Government and those related to exports. The tax is as follows: Tax CFAF 250 CFAF 1,000 CFAF 1,500 CFAF 2,500 CFAF 3,000 CFAF 3,500 Payable on CFAF 10,001-25,000 CFAF 25,001-100,000 CFAF 100,001-300,000 CFAF 300,001-500,000 CFAF 500,001-1,000,000 Amounts over CFAF 1,000,000 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses are issued by the Depart- ment of Economic Affa irs with the approval of the Exchange Office. Import certificates are subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is a member of the French Franc Area, and settle- ments with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Certain settlements with Ghana are made through bilateral accounts in CFA francs. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France; those with 1 The CFA franc circulating in Upper Volta is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de rOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 558 UPPER VOLTA Rumania through Rumanian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs; those with all other countries in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France, but in Upper Volta these accounts have only limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Upper Volta Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. For certain goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents (to prove that an order has been placed) are'submitted to the authorized bank. A "temporary price support tax" of 1.5 per cent, calculated on the value on which the import duties and import taxes are levied, is payable on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted free ly; those to other countries are, in principle, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, but the authority for such approval has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents from profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. The allowance for tourist travel is CFAF 250,000 for each trip, and exchange for business travel expenses is freely granted. Foreign workers may repatriate up to 100 per cent of their salaries. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. 559 UPPER VOLTA Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Togo may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going directly to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for wh ich the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a max imum of F 1,000 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries are permitted f ree ly, provided that the exporter obtains a certificate f rom an authorized bank. Certain commodities on the prohibited list can be exported in special circumstances only, and they require a license issued by the Depart- ment of Economic Affa irs. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within a month f rom the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, and all income exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000 f rom foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currency is prohibited. 560 UPPER VOLTA Capital Capital movements between Upper Volta and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con tro l; those between Upper Volta and all other countries require approval. Law No. 25/61/AN of July 1961 and Law No. 14/62/AN of June 1962 prov ide p re fe ren t ial treatment for fore ign investment in Upper Volta. Under the latter law, two preferen t ial categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with wh ich preferen t ial treat- ment w i th respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more l ibe ral than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Gove rnmen t; and the enterprise accorded such benef i ts must be of special impor tance to the national economy. Law No. 25/61/AN sets up an assistance f u nd for new industries. Changes during 1964 February 1. Settlements w i th Eastern Germany ceased to be made on a b i la teral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Eastern Germany, wh ich was also applicable to Upper Vo l ta, was te rm ina ted. March 1. Settlements with Czechoslovakia ceased to be made on a b i la teral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Czechos lovak ia, which was also applicable to Upper Volta, was te rm ina ted. July 1. An exchange tax was imposed on all payments equivalent to more th an CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc A rea, except paymen ts made by the Government and those related to exports. The tax ranges f rom CFAF 250 on amounts between CFAF 10,001 and CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 3,500 on amounts over CFAF 1,000,000. August 1. Almost all global quotas for 1964 for imports from EEC countries except France were increased in accordance with the commitments of the new Agreement of Association with the EEC. 561 URUGUAY 1 Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place in an official free market conducted by the Bank of the Republic, which presently maintains fixed buying and selling rates. The Bank of the Republic purchases the proceeds f rom basic exports at Ur$18.20 per US$1, and sells exchange at Ur$18.70 per US$1 for most imports free of surcharges or with a surcharge of 30 per cent. Most other exchange transactions take place in a parallel market with a freely fluctuating rate; on January 28, 1965, the rate in this market was about Ur$25.50 per US$1. A tax of 6 per cent is levied, on payments for nearly all merchandise imports; in addition, a tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad and, with minor exceptions, on all funds remitted abroad. Furthermore, payments for imports bearing a surcharge of 60 per cent or more are subject to a tax of 1 per cent. The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracdones), and most imports are subject to surcharges. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the Banking Department of the Bank of the Republic. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges and export taxes, holds the advance deposits required for some imports, and receives export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral pay- ments agreements or interbank compensation agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.2 Settlements with other countries are made in UJ3. dollars or other convertible currencies. 1In view of changes that took place early in 1965 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 28,1965. 2 These countries are Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, and Spain. 562 URUGUAY Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to declaration or registration prior to shipment.3 Imports of a few goods not included in the lists of freely permitted imports are prohibited; with these exceptions, imports are not subject to quantitative restriction. In order to obtain the necessary import documents and then be able to clear the goods through cus- toms, the local currency equivalent of the value of imports must be paid into the Bank of the Republic, except when the imports are on a deferred payments basis. Most goods exempt from surcharges or subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent are entitled to exchange at the official rate. Exchange for all other imports must be obtained in the parallel market; these include certain items exempt from surcharge or subject to a 30 per cent surcharge. For goods entitled to exchange at the official rate, the Bank of the Republic grants the exchange upon presentation of documentary evidence of customs clearance (cum- plido aduanero). Imports are classified in seven categories: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge; goods in the other six categories are subject to a surcharge of 30, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent. For goods subject to the 150, 225, or 300 per cent surcharge, an advance deposit of 200 per cent is also required. The advance deposit must be made with the Bank of the Republic at the time the import is registered; it is refunded 9 months later or, for imports of a few specified items and imports of all goods not specifically listed, 12 months later. Imports of all items appearing in the Uruguayan concession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special con- cession lists for Ecuador and Paraguay are exempt from advance deposit requirements; some of these items are also exempt from surcharges, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. Under Law No. 11924 of March 27, 1953, payments for most imports are subject to a tax of 6 per cent, in addition to the tax of %0 of 1 per cent that is payable on virtually all remittances abroad. Moreover, pay- ments for imports bearing a surcharge of more than 60 per cent are subject to a tax of 1 per cent. Imports of seeds, vaccines, fertilizers and materials for their preparation, raw sugar, coffee beans, crude yerba mate, medicines, and a few other items are exempt from the %o per cent remittance tax. Import registrations are subject to a tax of %0 °f 1 Per cent on their total amount. All imports are subject to consular charges of %0 of 1 per cent on the f .o.b. value. Advance deposits and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many commodities or on 8 On January 11, 1965, the Bank of the Republic suspended until further notice the sale of foreign exchange and the acceptance of import registrations. 563 URUGUAY the actual c.i.f. value, wh ichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an off ic ia l ly assessed price (also referred to as a /o ro ), wh ich usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports of goods sub ject to a surcharge of 30 per cent or more may not be financed in fo re ign currency, either locally or abroad, for more than 120 days f r om the date of the bill of lading. Imports ordinarily subject to the 30 per cent surcharge are liable to only one h a lf of this surcharge if transported in U ruguayan ships. Moreover, for certain goods the 6 per cent tax is removed if they are imported in Uruguayan vessels. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, subject to a tax of %o of 1 per cent. Exchange for fre ight and insurance on imports is granted at the off ic ial rate by the Bank of the Republic. Exchange for all other invisibles must be obtained in the parallel market. Com- panies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accru ing in Uruguay and a further 10 per cent when t rans fe r r ing this income f rom Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracdones or re ten t ions ), wh ich are withheld by the Bank of the Republic. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated m in imum is 25 per cent, while for washed and scoured wool, tops, wool ya rn, and the by-products of combing and spinning it is 5 per cen t; these percentages may be ad jus ted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports other than wool that are sub ject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the Bank of the Republic, through banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange, not later than 10 working days a f ter shipment has been authorized . For exports of wool , minimum f .o .b . values (aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types; exchange corresponding to these minimum prices must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at the official rate, wh i le any receipts in excess of the minimum may be sold in the para l lel market. The m in imum f.o.b. values per kilogram are as fo l lows: US$0.80 for greasy wool; US$1.23 for scoured wool; US$1.01 for scoured belly wool and lambs' wool; US$1.35 for combed wool; 564 URUGUAY and US$0.54 for noil and combing by-products. The proceeds of exports of wool yarn may be retained or sold in the parallel market. Exports of wool manufacturers, whether piece goods or ready-made clothing, receive a 22 per cent export subsidy; the proceeds may be sold in the parallel market. Processed products may receive export subsidies of up to 20 per cent of their f.o.b. value and a refund of surcharges levied on imported components. All exchange receipts f rom abroad are subject to a tax of %0 of 1 Per cent. The taxes presently applied to export proceeds are as follows. For greasy, scoured, and combed wool, Ur$50.46, Ur$77.63, and Ur$83.51, respectively, per ten kilograms. For packed or canned beef, 0.01 per cent, and for all other kinds of beef, 17 per cent. For dry sheepskins and dry cattle hides, Ur$30.97 and Ur$20.42, respectively, per ten kilograms. For salted and pickled hides per hundred kilograms, the following: for calf and he ifer hides, Ur$146.07 (Ur$134.94 for re jec t s ); for steer and cow hides, Ur$115.12 (Ur$110.70 for re jec ts ); for bull and ox hides, Ur$80.53 (Ur$71.22 for rejects). The tax on pickled or salted unborn calf hides up to ten kilograms is Ur$19.61. For linseed products per ton: Ur$235.79 for linseed grain, Ur$175.27 for linseed oil, Ur$59.68 for linseed expellers, and Ur$52.37 for linseed meal. For sunflowerseed products per ton: Ur$334.70 for oil, Ur$157.61 for expellers, Ur$140.51 for meal, and Ur$330.60 for sunflowerseed. For wheat and wheat products per ton: Ur$185 for grain, Ur$212 for flour, and Ur$45 for pollard; a certain quantity of wheat, however, may be exported free of tax. M in imum export prices expressed in U.S. dollars per ton are in force for wool, frozen and chilled beef, and for most hides and skins; prices of cereal exports must be approved by the National Grain Board. Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat are f rom time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the parallel market. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either residents or non- residents are free, subject to a tax of %0 of 1 per cent. All outward 565 URUGUAY transfers of private capital must be effected through the parallel market. Changes during 1964 January 1. Imports of potatoes became subject to a surcharge of 100 per cent and an average c.i.f. price of US$0.10 per kilogram. January 16. The Bank of the Republic lowered its official buying rate from Ur$16.30 to Ur$16.20 per US$1. January 20. In accordance with a law passed on December 26, 1963, export retentions on greasy wool, skirted wool, and wool tops were reduced by 5 per cent, 7 per cent, and 12 per cent, respectively. Exports of wool yarn, waste, and noil were exempted from retention. Exports of woolen textiles not subject to retention were granted a 22 per cent export subsidy on the declared f.o.b. value, payable by the Ministry of Finance through the intermediary of the Bank of the Republic. February 6. Imports of certain fru i ts were permitted freely until March 21, 1964; such imports would be exempt from customs duties and charges, surcharges, and remittance tax. February 18. The tax on inward and outward remittances was raised f rom %0 to %0 °f 1 Per cen^- February 20. Imports of many types of forage were exempted from import duties, import charges, and surcharges for 90 days. February 27. Prices of all beef exports required the approval of the Bank of the Republic. Previously, the Ministry of Livestock and Agri- culture indicated the international prices to which retentions were applied. March 5. Certain items were added to the import free lists. The surcharges or the average c.i.f. prices on which the surcharges were levied were modified for a number of imports. March 11. Exchange brokers could not hold foreign exchange equiva- lent to more than US$10,000 at the close of daily operations, unless special authority was obtained. At the same time, registered exchange brokers were required to make guarantee deposits in national debt bonds or cash. In addition to the guarantee deposit requirement and the limitation on exchange holdings, the regulations specified that only brokers authorized by the Bank of the Republic could buy and sell foreign notes and currency; their operations must be entirely for local purposes and settled in cash; they could not make payment orders abroad either in local or foreign currency unless specifically authorized; 566 URUGUAY they must maintain a daily register of their foreign currency trans- actions and could not conduct any operations of a banking nature. April 2. The following commodities were, until September 30, 1964, exempted from customs duties, surcharges, and remittance tax: machinery for public works, drugs and materials for their manufacture, raw sugar, ju te, and raw coffee. April 16. A decree was issued to clarify the meaning of Article 11 of the decree of January 23,1964 concerning wool exports. The new decree stated that the foreign exchange proceeds of textile exports (whether piece goods or ready-made clothing) did not need to be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. April 30. Payments for temporary transit imports were shifted from the official to the parallel market. May 7. The Bank of the Republic ceased granting foreign exchange at the official selling rate to airline companies for remittances abroad related to passages sold locally, and to travelers leaving Uruguay. Both types of transaction were shifted to the parallel market. May 8. Importers could obtain forward exchange for imports either exempt from surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 20 per cent at the time of presenting the import declaration, provided that these imports were financed abroad; previously, such cover could not be obtained until dispatch of the merchandise f rom customs. The forward cover would be granted as before for 180 days at 9 per cent annual interest and at the exchange rate of the day before the submission of the import declaration. The foreign currency would be delivered by the Bank of the Republic upon presentation of evidence of customs clearance. May 14. A surcharge of 300 per cent, calculated on an aforo basis of US$3.00 per kilogram, was levied on motorcycles, motor scooters, and similar vehicles, and on certain spare parts. May 21. Imports of all merchandise subject to a surcharge of 60 per cent or more, and of certain items subject to a 20 per cent surcharge, were suspended for 15 days. May 28. The temporary exemption from customs duties and sur- charges on specified forage commodities, which was introduced on February 20 (see above ), was extended to August 20,1964. June 9. The Bank of the Republic announced that it would make exchange available at Ur$16.40 per US$1 for those goods imported between May 9, 1963 and July 25, 1963 that had either remained unpaid for or had been paid for with foreign exchange obtained from commercial banks. June 29. In accordance with the terms of its new charter, the Bank of 567 URUGUAY the Republic issued new regulations governing the activities of the private banks. These included limits on loans for certain purposes, such as the financing of import deposits, import surcharges, import credits and forward exchange operations in connection with certain categories of imports, and financial swaps. July 9. Law No. 13268 was promulgated providing for assistance to firms that processed export products, when it could be shown that such assistance was necessary to make their products competitive. The benefits would take the fo rm of a reimbursement of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the exports and the re fund of surcharges levied on imported components. The former payments had to be used in settle- ment of tax debts. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to finance the operations of processing firms by making forward purchases of their exchange earnings. July 9. New export retentions were established for linseed products at the fo l low ing rates per ton: linseed grain, Ur$235.79; linseed oil, Ur$175.27; linseed expellers, Ur$59.68; linseed meal, Ur$52.37. Imports of corn for forage were exempted from customs duties, other charges, and surcharges, up to September 30,1964. August 11. Potatoes imported between August 15 and October 31 by the National Food Council were exempted from surcharge, while those imported by private firms becaine subject to a surcharge of 60 per cent calculated on an aforo value of US$0.05 per kilogram. August 14. All official customs valuations (average ci.f. values or aforos) that had not been changed during the last three years were raised by 100 per cent. The increase also was applied, insofar as per- mitted by existing treaties and agreements, to goods enjoying prefer- ences by virtue of trade agreements. (The last general revision of customs aforos had taken place on June 23,1960.) August 14- The Minister of Finance instructed the Bank of the Republic to enforce certain measures introduced in April 1959, including the ban on forward exchange operations other than for foreign trade purposes. August 20. Imports of many forage products were exempted until October 15,1964 f rom import duties and surcharges. Imports of sorghum and corn made by the Directorate of Agricultural Supply would remain exempt from import duties, surcharges, and remittance tax until November 15,1964. August 27. Import surcharges and advance deposits were calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) or on c.i.f. invoice values, whichever were higher; previously, in many instances, both were calculated on aforo values, which usually were below actual c.i.f. values. When the 568 URUGUAY import price was lower than ruling international prices, the customs authorities were permitted to assess c .i .f. values on the basis of the average international market price of the commodity concerned. August 27. The retention applied to the local currency proceeds of exports of f rozen cooked beef was reduced f rom 7 per cent to 0.01 per cent. September 10. The retention on exports of greasy wool was reduced f rom Ur$72.40 to Ur$50.46 per ten kilograms. The retentions on other types of wool per ten kilograms were reduced as fo l lows: scoured wool, Ur$77.63 (previously Ur$l 10.27), and combed wool, Ur$83.51 (previ- ously Ur$l 17.02). Exports of greasy wool fleeces would continue to be registered at their actual f.o.b. value, but in no case could this be less than the equivalent of US$1.20 per kilogram. September 24. The surcharge on potato imports registered a f ter this date was established at 100 per cent on an average c . i . f. price of US$0.10 per kilogram. September 29. Many surcharges and average c.i.f. prices and certain advance deposit requirements were modified for protective reasons. October 1. The exemption f rom customs duties and taxes for fu e l, lubricants, and certain other essential imports was extended until March 31,1965. October 1. New aforo values were established for wool exports per kilogram as fo l lows: greasy wool US$1.20; scoured wool US$1.65; combed wool US$2.20; and noil and combing by-products US$0.90. Private banks and exporters were required to deliver to the Bank of the Republic the foreign exchange corresponding to the aforo value at the off ic ial rate of Ur$16.20 per kilogram. Any excess in foreign exchange over the aforo value could be retained or sold in the free market. All wool exports had to be registered at their actual f.o.b. value. The m in imum export price of US$1.20 per kilogram was abolished. October 6. Implementing regulations were issued for the application of Law No. 13268 concerning export subsidies to processing industries. October 10. Raw sugar, crude yerba mate, coffee beans, sackcloth, road-mak ing mach inery, and medicines and the raw materials for their production could continue to be imported f ree of customs duties and other levies until March 31, 1965; payments in respect of these imports would remain free of remittance tax. Processed yerba mate could continue to be imported during the period indicated with a 50 per cent reduction in duties and charges. October 15. The import surcharge on nylon and similar polyamide yarns was increased from 60 per cent to 100 per cent. 569 URUGUAY October 22. Imports of seed potatoes for the 1964-65 crop were exempted from customs duties and other levies until January 31,1965. October 22. Imports of raw sugar other than for refining were prohibited. November 5. It was announced that imports of potatoes registered between August 15 and September 24, 1964 would be subject to a fixed surcharge of US$3.00 per hundred kilograms. November 5. The procedure was announced for obtaining authority to import industrial machinery and equipment free of surcharges, as provided in a decree of September 29,1960. November 12. The proceeds from exports of combed wool yarn could be retained or sold in the free market. November 12. For protective reasons, the surcharge on refrigerator motors and parts was increased to 100 per cent, and the average c.i.f. price was set at US$2.75 per kilogram. November 20. The Ministry of Finance requested the Bank of the Republic to adopt measures, with respect to sea-borne foreign trade, to give preference to Uruguayan ships and ships of the country of origin or destination of the goods, except for imports of petroleum and petroleum products. November 24. The Bank of the Republic depreciated its buying and selling rates from Ur$16.20 and Ur$16.40 per US$1, respectively, to Ur$18.20 and Ur$18.70 per US$1. November 24- The import surcharges of 20, 60, 100, and 150 per cent were increased to 30, 90, 150, and 225 per cent, respectively. A new list of merchandise subject to a 60 per cent surcharge was published. The lists of merchandise subject to the respective surcharges were modified. The requirement of a 200 per cent advance deposit applicable to goods with a 150 per cent or 300 per cent surcharge was extended to goods with a 225 per cent surcharge. The increases in surcharges would not be applied to imports from LAFTA countries of goods on the Uruguayan National Concession List. November 24. The Bank of the Republic confined its sales of spot exchange at the official rate to payments for imports exempt from surcharge or subject to a 30 per cent surcharge. Exchange for all other imports and invisibles had to be purchased in the parallel market. Spot exchange could only be obtained upon customs clearance; when applying for exchange at the official rate, importers were required to present to the Bank documentary evidence of customs clearance (cumplido aduanero). The Bank of the Republic ceased granting forward exchange for imports. Imports of merchandise subject to 570 URUGUAY surcharges of 30 per cent or more could no longer be financed in foreign currency, either locally or abroad, for more than 120 days from the date of the bill of lading. November 24. The tax on the proceeds f rom exports of beef (other than packed or canned) was increased f rom 7 per cent to 17 per cent. November 26. The m in imum values for customs purposes (aforo values) for wool exports per kilogram were changed as follows: greasy wool, unchanged at US$1.20; scoured wool, from US$1.65 to US$1.82; combed wool, from US$2.20 to US$1.95; noil and combing by-products, f rom US$0.90 to US$0.78. A new category, scoured belly wool and lambs' wool, was established, subject to an aforo of US$1.50 per kilo- gram. Any exchange received in excess of these official valuations could be sold in the free marke t; foreign exchange corresponding to these valuations had to be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. November 26. A list was issued of commodities for which, although subject to no surcharge or one of 30 per cent, no official exchange would be granted. The list included watches, fountain pens, ballpoint pens, precious stones, coins, and precious metals in ingots or bars. November 26. It was announced that imports of seeds, vaccines, and fertilizers and materials for their preparation would remain exempt f rom customs duties and other levies and from remittance tax until December 31,1965. November 26. Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes were prohibited. December 1. New retention rates were announced for proceeds from exports of hides and skins. The rate per ten kilograms for dry sheepskins was Ur$30.97 and for dry cattle hides, Ur$20.42. The rates per hundred kilograms for salted and pickled hides were as follows: calf and he ifer hides, Ur$146.07 (rejects, Ur$134.94); steer and cow hides, Ur$115.12 (rejects, Ur$110.70); and bull and ox hides, Ur$80.53 (rejects, Ur$71.22). A rate of Ur$19.61 each was applied to pickled or salted unborn calf hides up to ten kilograms. December 3. Certain other types of wool were brought into the US$1.50 f.o.b. retention category. December 23. Commercial banks were required to inform the Bank of the Republic in writing of the reasons whenever imports or exports were not shipped either in a Uruguayan vessel or under the flag of the country of origin or destination. December 28. The official gold parity of the Uruguayan peso was changed from 0.085 gram to 0.059245 gram; in terms of U.S. dollars, the change was from Ur$10.40 to Ur$14.99 per US$1. 571 URUGUAY December 29. It was announced that the new surcharges introduced on November 24 would not be applied to any goods imported f rom LAFTA countries. December 29. The Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture was empow- ered to authorize exports of wheat up to 200,000 tons; such exports would be exempt f rom retentions. December 29. Imports of bicycles and other vehicles, except automo- biles, required a 200 per cent advance deposit if fitted with tires or tubes of a size also manu fac tu red in Uruguay. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1965: January 11. The Bank of the Republic suspended its sales of foreign currency. It also announced that, until fur ther notice, it would not accept new import declarations. January 26. The minimum values for customs purposes (aforo values) for wool exports per kilogram were reduced as fo l lows: greasy wool, f rom US$1.20 to US$0.80; scoured wool, from US$1.82 to US$1.23; scoured belly wool and lambs' wool, f rom US$1.50 to US$1.01; combed wool, f rom US$1.95 to US$1.35; noil and combing by-products, f rom US$0.78 to US$0.54. Any exchange received in excess of these off ic ial valuations could be sold in the free market. January 28. A new Tax Law entered into effect. A tax of 1 per cent was introduced on all sales of exchange for imports other than goods bearing no surcharge or a surcharge of up to 60 per cent; the tax would be levied in addition to the remittance tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Companies constituted outside Uruguay were required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a fu r ther 10 per cent when transferr ing this income f rom the country; these taxes replaced the fo rmer 20 per cent tax on profit remittances. The Tax Law also estab- lished new limits within which the Government was free to fix retentions on the peso proceeds of exports, as fo l lows: greasy wool, 25-50 per cent; washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of combing and spinning, 5-50 per cent; linseed and linseed oil, expellers, and meal, 0.01-50 per cent; sunflowerseed and products (oil, expellers, and m e a l ), 0.01-50 per cent; groundnuts and groundnut oil, expellers, and meal, 0.01-50 per cent; wheat and wheat products, 0.01-50 per cent; beef and beef products, 0.01-50 per cent; cattle hides and she'epskins, dry and salted, 0.01-50 per cent. The Law exempted exports of horticultural products, f ru i ts, and citrus f ru it juices f rom customs duties and export taxes, and reduced port dues by 50 per cent on exports of f ru i ts and by 25 per cent on the other products mentioned. 572 VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value established with the Fund is Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transactions take place at the following rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. All other exchange proceeds are purchased by commercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds f rom exports of cacao and coffee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in certain circumstances they are eligible for special subsidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Central Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, grants a sub- sidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange purchased to make payments for imports of wheat and powdered milk. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministries of Development or Agriculture, depending on the com- modity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that an exchange subsidy is applied to the appropriate trans- actions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank administers the payment of this subsidy, which is granted only on import payments for wheat and powdered milk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license from the Ministry of Development and a permit from the Import Subsidy Off ice; exports containing a substantial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a permit from the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government. A number of items require import licenses; quantita- tive restrictions are maintained on these items for protective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the 573 VENEZUELA importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed per- centage of the amount imported. Licenses are not required for imports that are shipped via air transport and which have an f.o.b. value of less than US$2,000 or the equivalent in other currencies, or for imports that are shipped by any other mode of transport and which have a c.i.f. value of less than US$2,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered m i lk) require permits from the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses from the Ministry of Development. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly; exchange for this purpose is purchased from commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for the export of some products essential to the domestic economy must be obtained f rom the Ministries of Development and Agriculture. Export permits from the Import Subsidy Office are also required if commodities eligible for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a substantial component of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements ( inc lud ing taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an additional payment for this exchange, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from fa l l ing below specified minimum amounts regardless of external dollar prices. On the basis of the prices existing dur ing 1964, such additional payments were being made only for export proceeds derived from the lower grades of cacao. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. 574 VENEZUELA Changes during 1964 January IS. There was a ma jor reform of the exchange system; this made the rates of Bs 4.40 and Bs 4.50 per US$1 effective for almost all transactions. Previously, exchange proceeds from the petro- leum and iron ore companies were subject to rates of Bs 3.09 and Bs 3.33, respectively, and many more payments were classified at the Bs 3.35 rate. December 30. The use of the subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 was confined to payments for imports of powdered milk and wheat; previously, imports under 27 customs classifications had the benefit of this subsidy. December 31. The repatriation and servicing at the rate of Bs 3.35 per US$1 was terminated for capital registered with the exchange control authorities during the period from November 1960 to April 1962, for which exchange had been sold to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 3.335. 575 VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$35.00 per US$1. The official buying rate is VN$34.65, and the selling rate is VN$35.35, per US$1. The official selling rate is applicable only to sales of exchange for travel, tuition, and other expenses of certain Vietnamese students for study abroad. The official buying rate is not applicable to any exchange transactions. The official buying and selling rates, plus a premium on purchases of exchange or the payment of a Security and Economic Development Tax on sales of exchange, equivalent in each case to five sevenths of the amount transferred calculated at the official parity rate, give rise to effective rates of VN$59.65 buying, and VN$60.35 selling, per US$1, for most trade and for certain transactions in invisibles. Other effective rates arise f rom a system of subsidies, ranging from VN$5.00 to VN$40.00 per US$1, extended to the exchange proceeds of secondary exports, and from the existence of an officially controlled free market, through which settlements may be made for other invisibles. As at December 31, 1964, the rates in the controlled f ree market were 1 per cent on either side of VN$73.50 per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Under an agreement with Cambodia, payments to and from that country are made at a rate of VN$1 = 1 riel. Rates for other cur- rencies are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the official market, and outgoing payments for certain invisibles authorized through the controlled free market, must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office (a department of the National Bank of Viet-Nam). All remittances must have the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Imports under U.S. "project aid" programs require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Directorate- General of Trade and are countersigned by the National Bank (American Aid Department). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade and are countersigned by the National Exchange Office. How- ever, for imports of a noncommercial character valued at less than 576 VIET-NAM VN$1,000, the National Exchange Office is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade, but they require also the approval of the National Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Cambodia and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts maintained by the central bank of each country in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, respectively, and balances thereon are settled periodically in U.S. dollars. All other settlements are made in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the National Exchange Office. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers nontransferable piastres owned by nonresident foreigners. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain branches of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Econ- omy. Their use is subject to the approval of the National Exchange Office. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, below), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the Law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ); (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country-financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japanese loans, or French credit insurance. In principle, products imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential prod- ucts, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. Licenses for imports of nine 577 VIET-NAM groups of commodities* are reserved for exporters of goods other than rice and rice products, rubber, cinnamon, coffee, buffa loes on the hoof, salt, beer, cigarettes, black tea, and white sand (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The issuance of licenses for most imports f rom France is suspended. Imports from Cambodia are made on a barter basis (echanges compenses). Some other imports are permitted without foreign ex- change (sans devises); these include commodities donated under the Colombo Plan, small donations from countries not participating in that Plan, imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, aviation gasoline, lubricants, and spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the National Exchange Office is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports are classified in 18 broad categories. An importer may make application to import goods in no more than 3 categories. Individual licenses, which are not transferable, are required for all imports. Importers who use less than 90 per cent of their licenses issued for AID-financed imports or less than 97 per cent of their licenses issued for imports financed from Viet-Nam's own reserves are subject to a penalty. The penalty in the former case may go up to 20 per cent of the value of the commodities licensed. In the latter case, the penalty is determined by the National Exchange Office on a case-to-case basis. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the official rate plus a Security and Economic Development Tax equal to five sevenths of the amount transferred calculated at the official parity rate. For capital goods ordered prior to January 1962, or subsequently with official approval, payment of the tax can be deferred for up to five years. A subsidy of 20 per cent is granted on the c. & f. value (calcu- lated at the rate of VN$60 per U.S. dollar) of industrial equipment for new approved investments and of accessories and spare parts for existing industrial firms, provided that the import is financed from foreign aid received in the fo rm of grants. An "austerity" tax, ranging from 15 per cent to 450 per cent, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the official rate of exchange. 1 These are maltose and candy, dairy products, fresh and dried f ru i ts, beverages, ginseng and herbs of the traditional pharmacopoe ia, woolen blankets and piece goods for adult wear, cigarette paper and certain other kinds of paper, toys, and cosmetics. 578 VIET-NAM Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval by the National Exchange Office. The National Exchange Office allocates exchange for transfers to certain students abroad at the official rate. For certain payments —such as government expenses and certain insur- ance premiums —exchange is allocated by the National Exchange Office at the official rate plus the Security and Economic Development Tax. With the approval of the National Exchange Office, payments may be made up to prescribed limits through the controlled free market for such items as transfers of profits of foreign enterprises, personal savings of resident foreigners, medical expenses, fam i ly allocations, foreign travel, and students' expenses. Foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 70 per cent of their net annual profits excluding profits resulting f rom rent. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises established or expanded af ter 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that Law (see section on Capital, below). Resident nationals may once a year acquire in the controlled free market foreign exchange for tourist travel, as follows: the equivalent of US$600 for countries outside the Far East, of US$150 for Hong Kong and Bangkok, and of US$300 for other Far Eastern countries; these amounts may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$500 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank at the appropriate rate. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. Exports to communist countries and exports of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate; they receive a fixed premium equal to five sevenths of the amount sold calculated at the official parity rate. Many secondary exports benefit from one of ten subsidies ranging from VN$5.00 to VN$40.00 per US$1, in addition to the premium. Exporters of all goods other than rice and rice products, rubber, cinnamon, coffee, buffaloes on the hoo f, salt, beer, cigarettes, black tea, and white sand are entitled to receive import licenses corresponding to 25 per cent of their sur- 579 VIET-NAM rendered export proceeds for nine groups of imports which are not otherwise licensed (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). Exports of rubber are subject to an export tax of 40 per cent, and those of duck feathers to a tax of 15 per cent; export taxes are levied on the f.o.b. value calculated at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Net receipts resulting from certain payments and receipts in foreign exchange which may be entered on "port-of-call" accounts maintained by shipping companies must be surrendered at the official rate; they receive a premium equal to five sevenths of the amount sold calculated at the official parity rate. Exchange derived from other invisibles may be sold at the controlled free market rate; thus, tourists, philanthropic organizations, and foreign governments may sell their foreign exchange at this rate to cover their expenses in Viet-Nam. Persons entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of VN$500. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formali- ties, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Viet- namese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepart- mental Investment Committee. The minimum investment in agricul- ture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the Law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The Law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital and for the repatriation of the original investment a f t er 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent (a f ter 20 years 580 VIET-NAM for investment of foreign-owned capital previously held in Viet- N am ). An implementing regulation (Exchange Control Notice No. 73) provides that all imports and exports of capital under the Law are to be settled at the controlled free market rate on the day of transfer, with the exception that capital imports in kind must be calculated at the rate of VN$60 per U.S. dollar. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the National Exchange Office, which authorizes the transfer of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits (excluding profits resulting from rents) but discourages disinvestment. Enterprises established in 1962 may, subject to the approval of the Investment Committee, be granted the privileges of the Investment Law. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1964) (piastres per U£. dollar} Buying 34.65 (Official Rate) No transactions. 59.65 (Official Rate plus Premium of % of VNS35) Exports not receiving exchange subsidy. Government receipts. Some private invisibles. 64.65-99.65 (Official Rate plus Pre- mium of % of VN$35 and Various Exchange Subsidies) Certain secondary exports. 72.765 (Controlled Free Rate) Other invisibles. Market Setting 35.35 (Official Rate) Expenses abroad of certain students. 60.35 (Official Rate plus Security and Economic Development Tax of fy of VNS35) All imports. Government payments. Some private invisibles. 74.235 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Changes during 1964 During 1964, the supplementary export subsidies were revised at various times, as was the list of minor exports benefiting from such subsidies. Only the principal modifications are indicated below. January 1. New rates of supplementary export subsidies took e f fec t; these rates were announced on March 4, 1964 but were applied retroactively. January 24. The supplementary export subsidy on frozen shrimp was suspended. 581 VIET-NAM January 28. Further changes in "austerity" tax rates became effective. January 28. The issuance of import licenses for French goods was suspended, as was the issuance to French nationals in Viet-Nam of licenses for any imports, irrespective of origin. March 2. The export tax on duck feathers was reduced from 30 per cent to 15 per cent. April 6. All transfers of savings by foreign nationals had to be effected at the free market rate. Authorization was restricted to those having a basic monthly income of at least VN$10,000, and transfers could not exceed VN$50,000 a month. Transfers would be per- mitted on the basis of 35 per cent of the monthly salary as savings, and, as family support, 10 per cent for a spouse abroad and 5 per cent for each child abroad, subject to a maximum of 50 per cent of the monthly salary. May 6. Exports of certain fresh fish received a supplementary export subsidy of VNJIO.OO per U.S. dollar. May 8. A tax on tourism was introduced. Official government travel and travel for study or medical purposes were exempt. June 1. The rates of the tourist travel tax were revised. June 13. Cassava (sliced and dried) received a supplementary export subsidy of VNJ15.00 per U.S. dollar. July 1. Exporters of all goods other than rice and rice products, rubber, cinnamon, coffee, buffaloes on the hoof, salt, beer, cigarettes, white sand, and black tea were entitled to receive import licenses corresponding to 25 per cent of their surrendered export proceeds for maltose and candy, dairy products, fresh and dried fruits, and beverages. Import licenses for these four groups of commodities would be reserved entirely for exporters entitled to licenses under this export promotion scheme and would not be transferable. The entitlement would be calculated once every quarter on the basis of export proceeds surrendered during the past three months (to begin on May 1, 1964). The scheme would apply irrespective of whether the exports involved were also entitled to a supplementary export subsidy. July 16. The supplementary export subsidy on live hogs was raised from VNS25.00 to VN$30.00 per U.S. dollar. August 6. An equalization tax (taxe de perequatiori) was intro- duced on all imports of cotton yarn and staple fiber. This tax was in addition to the "austerity" tax. 582 VIET-NAM September 17. The following were added to the commodities which could only be imported under the export promotion scheme of July 1, 1964: ginseng and herbs of the traditional pharmacopoeia, woolen blankets and piece goods for adult wear, cigarette paper and certain other kinds of paper, and cosmetics. September 26. All students' transfers had to be made through the free market. October 10. The tax on tourist travel was abolished. November 1. A subsidy of 20 per cent was granted on the c. & f. value (calculated at the rate of VN$60 per U.S. dollar) of industrial equipment for new approved investments and of accessories and spare parts for existing industrial firms, provided that the import was financed from foreign aid received in the form of grants. November 30. The supplementary export subsidy for live hogs was raised from VNJ30.00 to VN$40.00 per U.S. dollar, and that for buffaloes on the hoof from VN$7.50 to VN$15.00 per U.S. dol- lar. Additional products were given the benefit of a supplementary export subsidy, as follows: raw cotton VN$5.00 per U.S. dollar, black pepper VNJ10.00 per U.S. dollar, and lacquer paintings VN$15.00 per U.S. dollar. December 1. A revised list of prohibited imports and a revised list of temporarily prohibited imports were issued. December 23. Transfers to students already abroad prior to the academic year 1964-65 could for one more year be made at the official rate. 583 YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System On January 1, 1952, a par value for the Yugoslav Dinar was established by Yugoslavia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at a fixed rate of Din 750 per US$1. Administration of Control The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions governing foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses where required. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. The National Bank is the operative organ of exchange control and prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank and the authorized banks, i.e., the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, the Yugoslav Agricultural Bank, the Republics' Economic Banks, or, for certain imports of capital goods, the Yugoslav Investment Bank. Most of the foreign exchange resources are controlled by the National Bank, which provides the foreign exchange needed by the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as fo l lows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Republic; (2) in sterling with Mainland China and, for certain transactions, with Ceylon; and (3) in their respective currencies with Ghana, India, Iraq, and Switzerland. A certain degree of multi- lateralization in payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Greece, Iraq, Mali, Turkey, and Switzerland. Under an agreement with Jordan, the proceeds of Jordanian phosphate exports 584 YUGOSLAVIA are to be used in settlement of Yugoslav exports to that country and for certain invisibles. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident dinar accounts. One type may be credited with the dinar countervalue of exchange transferred from abroad, and debited for any current payment in Yugoslavia; balances on this type of account may be transferred abroad. The other type may be credited with dinar amounts realized in Yugoslavia in accordance with the regulations, and may be debited only for tourist and living expenses in Yugoslavia; balances on this type of account may not be transferred abroad except with special approval. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. Balances on such accounts may be used for both commercial and noncommercial transactions. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may open with the National Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Payments to the credit of such foreign currency accounts may be made only by transfers of the foreign currency in which the account is denominated. These accounts may be debited for all noncommercial payments. Transfers from the foreign currency accounts are allowed in the currency of the account; transfers from accounts in convertible currencies may be made to all countries. Imports and Import Payments Only economic enterprises registered as participating in foreign trade may import. Registration is granted to all enterprises fu lf i l l ing certain prescribed conditions; in addition to enterprises specializing in foreign trade, most large industrial enterprises are registered. Unregistered enterprises are required to give their orders to the foreign trade enterprises, which import on their behalf and on their account. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by a number of foreign trade enterprises acting as agents of the State Food Administration. Some 89 commodities or groups of commodities included in a free list may be imported without license from any country and are free of quantitative restriction. This list comprises about 78 raw materials and semiprocessed goods and 11 consumer goods items. A "liberal licensing" procedure applies to imports from all sources of 12 commodities or groups of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely. Imports under these two categories constitute about 22 per cent of all imports. 585 YUGOSLAVIA For imports of 28 commodities or groups of commodities (23 of them being raw materials and semiprocessed goods and the other 5 being broad groups of consumer goods), commodity quotas are established in dinars. The fu ll quota for each commodity or group of commodities is divided into subquotas: one for all convertible currencies and the others for each bilateral agreement currency. Only a portion of the annual quotas is released initially, and the total of the subsequent releases may be more or less than the remainder af ter the initial release. Imports under quotas constitute about 38 per cent of all imports. Capital goods also are imported under quotas established for all convertible currencies taken together and for each bilateral agreement currency. Foreign exchange for this purpose is made available through the Yugoslav Investment Bank, the Yugoslav Agricultural Bank, and the Republics' Economic Banks. In addition, economic enterprises are authorized to import capital goods and spare parts from any country within the limits established for each individual enterprise, on the basis of disposable depreciation funds. Imports of equipment valued at more than US$100,000 may be made only on submission of tenders or on the basis of public bidding. Imports of capital goods under these procedures constitute about 20 per cent of all imports. Other goods, except consumer goods, may be imported freely f rom any country by utilizing foreign exchange allocated to each enterprise on the basis of the foreign exchange allocated to it in the past for imports of the same goods; but should an economic enterprise wish to import under this procedure, whether under "liberal licensing," under individual commodity quotas, or under restrictive licensing (see be low ), it must obtain the necessary import permit or authorization. In practice, the use of these funds for imports of goods under quotas is allowed only in exceptional cases. Liberal treatment is accorded to imports of goods destined for further processing and subsequent export. In practice, this procedure is used mainly for imports of raw materials and semimanufactured products. Imports under this procedure constitute about 19 per cent of all imports. Specified raw materials, semimanufactured goods, consumer goods, and specified capital goods may be imported only on the basis of an individual license, which is granted on a restrictive basis on the merits of each case. Imports under this arrangement amount to less than 2 per cent of all imports. Foreign exchange appropriate to the exporting country is provided by the National Bank or one of the authorized banks to pay for permitted imports. For the payment of imports subject to restrictive licensing, the economic enterprises may use either the foreign exchange allocated to them on the basis of past use or, for capital goods, the 586 YUGOSLAVIA foreign exchange allocation based on the percentage of disposable depreciation funds, or foreign exchange made available to them on an ad hoc basis for imports destined for further processing and subsequent exportation. In addition to the above, economic enterprises may obtain foreign exchange for payment of imports under quotas, or of those covered by allocations received on the basis of past use, f rom the authorized banks' own availabilities, provided that the imports concerned are used in such a way as to increase exports. Compensation arrangements with foreign countries are permitted only as an exception and are subject to approval by an authorized bank; in certain cases, this approval requires the prior agreement of the National Bank. Imports through compensation transactions constitute about 1 per cent of all imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to payments for merchandise. Exchange for all payments for invisibles may be purchased from the National Bank by government organs and institutions, social organizations, and similar bodies, within quotas determined in advance for each year. The National Bank may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$20 for remittances for fam i ly maintenance, court and other fees abroad, certain other purposes, and any personal expenses. There are basic annual exchange allowances of US$20 for tourist travel abroad, and US$10 for private travel to visit relatives abroad, for each person. All other exchange allocations for invisibles must be individually authorized. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100, may be taken out by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Thirty industrial commodities or groups of such commodities and 20 agricultural and forest products are subject to individual licensing. Two industrial commodities or groups of such commodities are subject to export quota. The principal reasons for export control are to ensure adequate domestic supplies and to meet obligations arising from agreements relating to imports from the United States under U.S. Public Law 480. Temporary export subsidies of varying magnitude are paid out of the federal budget on the f.o.b. value of exports, irrespective of the exchange payment. Altogether about 200 commodities or groups of commodities (most of them industrial raw materials, semiprocessed 587 YUGOSLAVIA goods, or finished products) are accorded export subsidies: 44, representing about 18 per cent of total exports, are granted a 32 per cent export subsidy; some 45, representing about 13 per cent of total exports, are granted a 22 per cent export subsidy; and 117, representing about 25 per cent of total exports, are granted a 10 per cent export subsidy. All proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered immediately a f ter receipt, and in any event not later than 90 days f rom the date of exportation. Exporters may purchase f rom the authorized banks foreign exchange proportionate to their export receipts to make payments connected with their exports, to purchase goods abroad, and to make other payments intended to advance their own economic activities. The proportions of export receipts that may be purchased by exporters vary according to the type of export concerned and range from 3 per cent for agricultural goods to 7 per cent for manufactured goods of lesser importance, 10 per cent for machinery and pharmaceutical products, and 12 per cent for tractors and motor vehicles. Tourist offices abroad may repurchase 20 per cent of their earnings, and economic organizations exporting books, periodicals, sheet music, and domestic films, 25 per cent. The purchased exchange is not transferable to other enterprises. In practice, a large part is used to pay for expenses incidental to exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks; those accruing f rom services must be surrendered not later than 90 days from the date of maturity of the payment. Organizers of international fairs in Yugoslavia are credited with 20 per cent of the exchange they receive from foreign exhibitors. This exchange may be used for the purchase of equipment for stands, to pay commissions for representation abroad, and for other expenses connected with the fairs. Enterprises involved in projects abroad may retain 100 per cent of their exchange proceeds to carry out such projects. Similarly, enterprises that participate in foreign companies may retain their profits earned abroad and use them for reinvestment abroad. Enterprises involved in foreign advertising in Yugoslavia may retain 50 per cent of their exchange receipts for use in connection with their activities, including the purchase abroad of printing machines and other materials. In all these cases the exchange is not transferable, but it can always be sold to the National Bank. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual procedures for import authorization apply. Residents may be authorized to hold foreign exchange accounts, in which they may deposit savings f rom salaries, per diem reimburse- 588 YUGOSLAVIA ments, fellowships, and individual earnings obtained while staying abroad. These accounts are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time; they may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his fam i ly. Assistance, grants, or similar receipts f rom abroad may be used for payments abroad, provided that an application to this effect is submitted to the Federal Secretariat for Finance within one year after receipts are obtained. Amounts authorized by the Secretariat may be utilized only for direct payments abroad; they may not be credited to a foreign exchange account. Sales of certain manufactured goods by authorized trade organiza- tions to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia, and to Yugoslav citizens paying in convertible exchange exempt f rom the surrender requirement, are made at a discount of 20 per cent, representing the exemption from turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 5,000 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100, may be brought in by travelers. Capital All transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Authorization is seldom granted for foreign participation in domestic enterprises in Yugoslavia. However, foreign loans to Yugoslav enter- prises are allowed on a liberal basis. Nonresidents (individuals or legal entities) are permitted to purchase and hold real estate property (buildings and land) in Yugoslavia for living, rest, or recuperation purposes, and to rent or lease this property through the intermediary of a Yugoslav tourist office or other Yugoslav authorized organizations. The nonresident purchaser of land must, however, erect a building on his lot within two years f rom the date of purchase. Unless specifically permitted to retain foreign exchange, residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange held abroad. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved. How- ever, domestic enterprises participating abroad in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A Decision of the Yugoslav Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided 589 YUGOSLAVIA that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Changes during 1964 February 18. 'Ten items or groups of import items were shifted from the list of imports subject to quotas to the general license category, and one item to the liberal license list. One item was shifted from the restricted license list to the general license category. Six items from the liberal license list and two items f rom the general license list were moved to the list of free imports, and one item from the liberal license list to the general license list. On the export side, 24 items or groups of items were freed from licensing requirements, and the number of goods subject to quota was reduced from 8 to 2. Two items were deleted from the list of export goods receiving subsidies. February 14. A bilateral barter agreement with Ceylon was signed; settlements relating to certain transactions, however, continued to be effected in convertible exchange. June 24- Yugoslav citizens paying in convertible exchange exempt f rom the surrender requirement could purchase certain manufac tured goods from authorized trade organizations at a 20 per cent discount. October 24. The bilateral payments agreement with Austria was terminated. October SO. The National Bank was authorized to sell to residents intending to travel abroad in their own automobiles and at their own expense foreign exchange for the purchase of gasoline, in addition to any foreign exchange granted as a travel allowance. 590 ZAMBIA *• 2 Exchange Rate System The currency of Zambia is tne Zambian Pound. The official value of the Zambian pound is 2.48828 grams of fine gold, corresponding to £Z 1 — US$2.80. The Zambian pound circulates concurrently with the Rhodesia and Nyasaland pound,3 which the Bank of Rho- desia and Nyasaland maintains at par with the pound sterling, giving a relationship to the U.S. dollar of £RN 1 = US$2.80. The authorized banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1964, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.81 % buying, and US$2.783/8 selling, per £Z 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland under powers delegated to it by the Ministers of Finance of the three territories of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Zamb ia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or in Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling or in Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds f rom an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. 1 Zambia is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 This country was formerly known as Northern Rhodesia when it formed part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, which was dissolved on Decem- ber 31, 1963. The common monetary area will be dissolved on June 1, 1965. In the interim, the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland will continue to exercise adminis- trative authority over exchange control matters in each of the three successor territories, Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia. The functions exercised by Federal Ministries in relation to the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland Act and the Exchange Control Acts prior to the dissolution of the Federation will be dis- charged during the interim period until the common monetary area also is dissolved by a committee appointed by the three territories. 3 The currency of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. 591 ZAMBIA Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of other Sterling Area currencies, with authorized payments by residents, and with transfers from other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Malawi, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are desig- nated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with trans- fers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency from authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments For some items, import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin.4 All other goods originating in the Sterling Area may be imported free of license or, if originating in certain other countries,5 may be imported freely under an open general license. Certain petroleum products and a few other items regardless of the country of origin, and imports of commodities of Japanese and Czechoslovak origin, may, with certain specified exceptions, also be imported under an open general license. For all other imports, individual licenses are required. Certain items of used clothing are subject to annual quotas. 4 Certain agricultural products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, bags made of ju te fiber, sugar, wheaten flour, white phosphorous matches, flick knives, secondhand accounting machines, certain timbers originating in A f r ica, explosives, game traps, wild animals, and live fish. 5 Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzer- land, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia. 592 ZAMBIA Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is author- ized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presenta- tion of the relevant documents. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £Z 10 a day for an adult and fZ 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age. The allowance is cumulative up to a maximum of £Z 900 for an adult and £Z 450 for a child. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education and medical treatment. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Travelers to Malawi and Rhodesia may take out freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Travelers to countries other than Malawi and Rhodesia may not, without permission, take out more than £Z 20 in Zambian currency notes or the equivalent of £Z 20 in the notes of Malawi and Rhodesia, and the equivalent of £Z 10 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely; but certain commodities are subject to licensing, mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.6 Export proceeds in foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £Z 20 in Zambian currency notes or the equivalent of £Z 20 in Rhodesian or Malawi notes or Rhodesia and Nyasaland pound notes may be brought in. 6 Implements of war, lead in any fo rm, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and certain agri- cultural and animal products. 593 ZAMBIA Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their invest- ments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original invest- ment was made with funds brought into the country from external sources. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of the subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as fo l lows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over who were self-employed and are leaving on retire- ment, or those qualifying for a pension in terms of their contract of employment, are allowed £Z 7,500. Annual transfers thereafter are based on the emigrant's marital and family status, the maximum allowance being £Z 4,000. (2) Married persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed £Z 3,000 on departure, together with £Z 250 for each child, up to a maximum of fZ 4,000 for a fam i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers equal to the original allow- ance are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed fZ 1,500 on departure and subsequent annual transfers of £Z 1,500. Changes during 1964 January 1. Most goods could be imported freely from Algeria, Burundi, Czechoslovakia, Rwanda, The United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. November 16. The Bank of Zambia, the newly established central bank of the country, started issuing the Zambian pound to replace the Rhodesia and Nyasaland pound at par. The currency change- over would continue until mid-1965. In the meantime, the two cur- rencies would circulate concurrently. 594 