 T H I R T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1962 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY F U ND Thirteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1962 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 10, 1962 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Thirteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the members in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, N PER JACOBSSON Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I I. Introductory Note II. Main Developments in Exchange Practices Maintenance of Convertibility Restrictions on Trade and Payments Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Arrangements III. Other Developments Advance Deposits Capital Payments Regional Agreements PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Member Countries of the International Monetary Fund Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Canada Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Cyprus vii Page 1 1 1 3 4 5 5 5 6 8 13 19 23 28 31 36 42 44 56 60 62 69 75 78 86 89 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Japan Jordan Korea Laos Lebanon Liberia Libya Malaya Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles Netherlands New Guinea New Zealand V l ll 96 103 106 Ill 114 117 124 135 140 145 151 153 155 156 161 165 173 181 186 191 194 199 205 214 219 223 224 226 227 230 233 235 242 244 250 252 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rhodesia and Nyasaland Ruanda-Urundi Saudi Arabia South A f r ica Spain Sudan Surinam Sweden Syrian Arab Republic Thailand Tunisia Turkey United Arab Republic United Kingdom United States Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Nonmember Countries Cambodia Switzerland Tanganyika CONTENTS IX 259 264 267 272 278 279 282 283 288 292 296 298 299 309 314 317 319 324 327 331 336 341 349 355 357 359 363 368 377 381 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introductory Note World trade continued to expand in 1961, but at a somewhat slower rate than in 1960; the share of primary producing countries in world trade again declined. These developments reflected on the one hand the rapid progress in the exchange of goods between industrial coun- tries, and on the other the fact that these countries' imports of raw materials did not keep pace with the growth of their industrial pro- duction, which was to some extent due to increasing use of substitutes. While the rate of increase in economic activity in most countries in Western Europe was somewhat reduced, industrial activity in the United States revived appreciably. The slackening in the rate of economic growth in most Western European countries led to a more cautious inventory policy on the part of European manufac tur ing industries and was an additional factor in the weakening in demand for raw materials. The general level of prices in world markets was remarkably stable, with the prices of some goods and services rising while others, particularly raw material and food prices, declined. In the ma jor i ty of the industrial countries, the continued high rate of business activity was accompanied by favorable balance of pay- ments positions. At times, however, there was tension in the exchange markets and considerable movements of short-term funds took place. This particularly affected sterling, in which large working balances and reserves of many countries are held. However, international cooperation, inc lud ing substantial assistance from the International Monetary Fund, helped to reverse the unfavorab le trend in sterling. None of the industrial countries had recourse to increased exchange restrictions. On the other hand, a number of raw material producing countries experienced payments difficulties. Many of these requested and received assistance from the Fund, enabling most of them to avoid intensification of their restrictions on imports. II. Main Developments in Exchange Practices Maintenance of Convertibility Changes in exchange systems and restrictions during 1961 and the first three months of 1962 continued the trend of preceding years. Additional steps were taken to liberalize trade and exchanges as part of the trend to free international payments from restrictions, which had been reinforced by the resumption of convertibility of the leading currencies. Ma jor exchange reforms were undertaken in a number of countries—Costa Rica, Ecuador, Israel, the Philippines, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Reliance on bilateral agreements was 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS also reduced and several multiple exchange rate systems were simpli- fied. All this represented fu r ther progress toward achievement of the purposes of the Fund. This progress was particularly significant because it reflected a determination on the part of a number of coun- tries to reduce their reliance on exchange restrictions, even though some of them experienced balance of payments difficulties. In the past twelve months the two ma jor currencies used in inter- national payments (U.S. dollars and sterling) have been subject in the world's exchange markets to various strains and stresses which brought under pressure the whole in terna t ional payments system by reason of the rather sharp movements of short-term capital. These movements were made possible largely by the freedom which now exists in most countries for nonresidents (but not necessarily residents) to exchange one currency for another. The countries concerned have, however, avoided the introduction of exchange restrictions on such capital movements, and there has been considerable international cooperation between the central banks of the leading industrial coun- tries to counteract the effect of these movements and to discourage them by giving official support to one another's currencies. Moreover, as noted earlier, large-scale assistance was obtained f rom the Fund by the United Kingdom. The capital movements which followed the revaluation of the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder in March 1961 were on an exceptionally large scale, and their impact was not confined to the markets for spot exchange. In particular, the premium on fo rwa rd deutsche mark, as on some other Western European currencies, rose noticeably immediately following the revaluation. This led to arrange- ments between the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany to reduce the wide spread between spot and fo rwa rd rates and hence to lessen the flow of short-term funds. This was the first time in the postwar period that the U.S. Treasury had intervened in the foreign exchange market, and this was done through its fiscal agent, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Subsequently, arrangements were broadened to include the Swiss franc, the Italian lira, and the Nether- lands guilder. The U.S. Federal Reserve System has also reported plans to enter foreign exchange markets for its own account. To this end, the System has entered into a reciprocal arrangement with France and has also acquired holdings of various other currencies. A change of policy with respect to the Canadian dollar was made in June 1961, when the Canadian Government announced its intention to reduce substantially Canada's import surplus of goods and services through an appropriate adjustment of the exchange rate. In connec- tion with this move, it was stated that the official Exchange Fund 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE PRACTICES would be prepared, as and when necessary, to add substantial amounts to its holdings of U.S. dollars through purchases in the exchange market. It was also stated that, once an exchange rate more closely in line with Canada's economic position was achieved, the Govern- ment would use the resources of the Exchange Fund to ensure that the rate would be kept within a range appropriate to Canada's chang- ing economic situation. Following this announcement, the exchange rate for the Canadian dollar fell f rom a small premium against the U.S. dollar to a discount of 3-3% per cent, at which it remained until the end of October. During the first four months of 1962, the discount fluctuated between 4% and 5 per cent. On May 2, 1962, the International Monetary Fund concurred in the proposal by Canada of a new par value of 92.5 U.S. cents per Canadian dollar. The step thus taken represented the return to a fixed par value system by Canada, and this was warmly welcomed by the Fund. Restrictions on Trade and Payments On balance, there was a net gain in 1961 in the liberalization of foreign transactions. A number of countries, including Austria, Burma, Colombia, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, fur ther liberalized restrictions on imports and import payments; of these, France, Italy, Japan, and Cyprus reduced substantially their discrimi- nation against dollar imports, while several diminished their discrim- ination against imports from Japan. At least eight countries, including France, Iceland, Jordan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Thailand, and Turkey, liberalized the granting of exchange in payment of trans- actions in invisibles, or delegated to commercial banks increased authority to approve such payments. In the countries in the Euro- pean Economic Community, increased quotas for imports still subject to quantitative restriction were established mainly for imports origi- nating in the other countries of the Community. On the other hand, Ceylon, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ghana, India, Iran, Iraq, New Zealand, and South Afr ica, all of which may be regarded as primarily raw material producing countries, increased their import restrictions, and five of these nine countries also restricted the granting of exchange in payment of invisibles. El Salvador, in order to control capital movements, established a comprehensive system of exchange control in April 1961. Its application has not involved the imposition of restrictions on payments in respect of current transactions, nor undue delay in the approval of applications for exchange for such transactions. The Dominican Republic is now employing exchange restrictions on the making of international payments, with the object 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of restoring its foreign exchange reserves; the Fund gave approval to these measures on a temporary basis. Restrictions on trade and payments are, taking the world as a whole, less than they have been for some decades. The number of countries which maintain such restrictions for balance of payments reasons has been appreciably lessened, and this is particularly true of the countries of Western Europe, although they retain restrictions for protective purposes, predominantly on agricultural items. Discrimination against particular Fund members or groups of Fund members has also materially diminished in the past few years, but continues to be sig- nificant, especially with respect to certain countries in Asia. Now that the currencies of the ma jor trading countries are convertible, the need and justification for discrimination for balance of payments reasons has virtually disappeared. The decline in recourse to discrimination has been most marked in imports f rom and payments to the dollar area, and also to an appreciable extent in imports f rom Japan, and some countries have abandoned this particular discrimination entirely. A number of less developed countries continue to have recourse to restrictions on imports for balance of payments reasons associated with their development programs or with certain excessive import demand arising from domestic inflation. Multiple Currency Practices Reliance on multiple currency practices continued on balance to decline in 1961 and the first months of 1962. The last vestiges of such practices disappeared from the exchange systems of Denmark, Jordan, and Yugoslavia. Israel unified its exchange system, except for certain transactions in securities, and Costa Rica took similar action, except for a tax on sales of exchange by foreign-owned banana com- panies. The United Arab Republic is replacing its multiple rate structure with a single rate. The multiple exchange rate systems of Brazil, Ecuador, the Philippines, and Viet-Nam were simplified. However, Chile introduced a dual market system and Korea rein- troduced multiple rates on exports. Venezuela's multiple rate system became more complex, but recent measures have made it more realistic. Eleven countries still operate multiple exchange rate systems of some significance: Chile, Ecuador, Nicaragua, the Philippines, and Viet- Nam have only two effective exchange rates, but Afghanistan, Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia, Korea, and Venezuela have more complicated systems. Details of changes in these systems are given in Part II of this Report. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER DEVELOPMENTS Bilateral Arrangements The number of bilateral payments arrangements between Fund member countries continued to decline noticeably. Since March 1961, Fund member countries have terminated 19 of these agreements. On the other hand, 27 new bilateral payments agreements were initi- ated, 6 of which were between members. The termination in 1961 of the ma jor bilateral payments agreements between Latin American countries —Argentina-Chile, Argentina-Brazil, and Brazil-Uruguay — as well as of several minor ones, eliminated to a large extent the use of this type of arrangement in the Western Hemisphere. Chile terminated all of its existing bilateral agreements except that with Yugoslavia. Brazil also terminated a number of its bilateral agree- ments. Bolivia and China (Taiwan) terminated the last of their bilateral payments agreements. Thus, whereas at the end of March 1960 Fund members maintained some 260 bilateral payments agreements, and at the end of March 1961 about 225, of which 75 were between members and 150 with non- member countries (mainly in the Eastern b loc ), by the end of March 1962 there were 233 such agreements, 62 with other members and 171 with nonmembers.1 Thus the use of bilateral payments agreements is now largely with nonmember countries; but the remaining bilateral payments agreements with members are still significant for several countries. Bilateral trade agreements continue in force between countries which do not maintain bilateral payments agreements, but the scope of their application tends to become smaller with the increasing liberalization of import policies. III. Other Developments Advance Deposits The use of advance deposit requirements, usually as a prerequisite for obtaining an import license or for clearing goods through customs, though sometimes as a part of the exchange system, has in the past twelve months shown no clear trend. In general, reliance on this device has not materially changed, but there were many changes in its application. Advance deposit requirements were abol- ished in Ethiopia and reduced in Colombia and Paraguay, but increased in Iran and Japan and newly introduced or reintroduced 1 Portugal, which joined the Fund during the period covered by this Report, also has a number of bilateral agreements, which are not included in these figures. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in Morocco, the Philippines, Tunisia, and Turkey. Fourteen countries now operate advance deposit requirements for some of their import commodities, as follows (the figures in parentheses show the percent- ages applied, or the range thereof, the highest usually relating to less essential commodities): Brazil (10-140), Chile (10,000—for fifteen items only), Colombia (1-500), Ecuador (25-100), Greece (50-280), Iran (25-70), Japan (1-35), Morocco (25 ), Nicaragua (100), Para- guay (100), the Philippines (50-150), Tunisia (25-100), Turkey (10), and Uruguay (100). In a number of cases these advance deposit requirements are not applied against imports from certain countries. In a few of these countries, the advance deposit is refunded at the time payment is made for the import, but in several others the deposits are retained for a fixed period regardless of the time of import or payment. In one country (U rugu ay ), the retention period for some commodities is as long as twelve months. In most of these countries, the advance deposit requirements are important in restricting the demand for imports. Capital Payments In most countries, capital owned by persons not resident in those countries can be repatriated, although this repatriation is not always possible for all capital transfers through the official market and may be feasible only at some less advantageous rate, depending on the exchange control system and the exchange rate conditions in the country concerned. On the other hand, in countries which operate sys- tems of exchange control, the freedom of residents to export their capital at the official market rate is limited to approved direct invest- ments abroad, and portfolio investment is usually possible only to the extent that other residents of the same country are disinvesting their foreign security holdings. Certain Western European countries permit capital transactions related to dealings in foreign securities, and to dealings in domestic securities by nonresidents, to be carried out in markets separated from those for current transactions. In these markets, the exchange rates may at times exceed the exchange rate margins permitted by the Fund. During the past twelve months, these exchange quotations remained, with minor exceptions, within these margins. In the Belgian free market, in which all capital transactions may be carried out, rates rose somewhat above parity in the beginning of 1961 and the average discount of the Belgian f r anc in that market reached a maximum in April. The rates then leveled off and in the last months of 1961 and the first months of 1962 they have remained stable at practically the same level as the rates in the official market. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER DEVELOPMENTS In Italy, the free market rates for capital transactions remained very close to the official market rates. In the first days of January 1962, the Italian authorities took the step of permitting freedom of transfer for Italian lire between the capital accounts and the convertible accounts of nonresidents. This had the effect of eliminating all differences in the rates of the two markets and permitted the repatriation, through the official instead of the f ree exchange market, of foreign capital and profits from foreign investments in excess of the limits established by a law of February 1956. Moreover, Italian residents were given freedom to purchase or subscribe to bond issues of international financial insti- tutions of wh ich Italy is a member; and general authority was given to financial institutions to buy or sell stocks and bonds quoted on foreign stock exchanges and issued and payable abroad, and to corpora- tions and non f inanc ial institutions domiciled in Italy to buy bonds quoted on foreign stock exchanges of companies domiciled in OECD countries and related monetary areas and issued by companies estab- lished for the same purpose as the corporation making the purchase. France announced in February 1962 the abolition of the system of devises-titres, which had involved a small premium on foreign currencies available for the purchase of foreign securities by residents. All such authorized transactions in France now take place at the official exchange market rate. South A f r ica, faced with declining foreign exchange reserves, felt compelled in June 1961 to introduce restrictions on outward move- ments of capital. South African residents were no longer permitted to purchase South A f r ican or Rhodesian securities on the London or Bulawayo stock exchanges, and the proceeds of South African securities sold by nonresidents were blocked and could neither be trans- ferred abroad nor transferred to other nonresidents. The authorities also withdrew the facility by which certain blocked funds of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area could be transferred to the United Kingdom for credit to a Blocked Sterling Account, where their sale to another nonresident for foreign exchange was possible. In March 1962 an improvement in reserves enabled the South Afr ican authorities to introduce certain relaxations: holders of blocked funds were permitted to subscribe to a special issue of five-year nonnego- tiable government bonds, bearing interest at 5 per cent and repayable in foreign exchange in five annual installments f rom the date of sub- scription. For 1962, the amount of this issue available for subscrip- tion was fixed at R 20 million. In addition, facilities were introduced by which approved financial institutions in South Africa could pur- chase South Afr ican securities in London through the South African Reserve Bank as intermediary. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Regional Agreements The six member countries 2 of the European Economic Community (EEC) made fur ther progress in the integration of their economic policies, as well as in the gradual elimination of trade barriers within the Community, as envisaged by the Treaty of Rome. On January 14, 1962, the Council of Ministers of the EEC unani- mously decided that the conditions for the beginning of the second stage of the implementation of the Treaty of Rome were fu lf i l led on January 1,1962. Important consequences of this decision are that from this date internal taxes on imports f rom other EEC member countries must not be higher than those on similar national products, and customs duties on such imports will be fu r ther reduced. Remaining quantitative restrictions on imports from other EEC member coun- tries are to be reduced, while taxes and quantitative restrictions on exports to them have been abolished, and further steps will have to be taken to move toward a common external ta r i f f. In addition, a common agricultural policy is to be implemented f rom July 1, 1962, and a common market for agricultural products is to be fu l ly achieved by the end of 1969. An agreement for association between Greece and the EEC was signed in Athens on July 9, 1961. The fo l low ing countries have applied for membership in the EEC: Ireland on July 31, 1961, Denmark and the United Kingdom on August 10, 1961, and Norway on May 2, 1962. Austria, Sweden, and Switzerland in December 1961, and Spain in February 1962, requested the opening of negotiations with the EEC with the object of enabling them to participate in an enlarged European market. In March 1962, the United States announced the conclusion of tariff negotiations with the EEC, the United Kingdom, and 24 other coun- tries. Concessions are expected to involve a 20 per cent cut in tariffs on imports of many industrial products. The member countries 3 of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) have made fur ther progress in reducing intraregional ta r i f fs, as well as in increasing their remaining internal import quotas. Tariffs, mainly on industrial goods, which were reduced by 20 per cent on July 1, 1960, were cut by another 10 per cent on July 1, 1961, instead of January 1, 1962 as originally scheduled. The accelerated reduction was carried out in order to keep tar iffs within the EFTA aligned 'Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 'Austria, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OTHER DEVELOPMENTS with tariff developments in the EEC. Tariffs within the EFTA are now 30-40 per cent below the rates in force in July 1960, when the Stockholm Convention came into operation. On November 21, 1961, the Council of Ministers of the EFTA decided that a further reduc- tion of tar iffs by 10 per cent should be carried out on March 1, 1962 by Denmark, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, and not later than September 1, 1962 by Austria and Nor- way. On July 1, 1961 the quotas rema in ing on imports within the EFTA area were increased by the EFTA countries by more than $30 million, which is nearly twice the m in imum increase (20 per cent) required under the Stockholm Convention. The agreement of asso- ciation between Finland and the EFTA, which was concluded on March 27, 1961, came into force on June 26, 1961. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) came into being on September 30, 1961. Its membership includes the 18 European countries which participated in the Organi- zation for European Economic Cooperation, which the OECD replaces, together with the United States and Canada. The first meeting of the Council of Ministers of the OECD was held in Paris on November 16 and 17, 1961. During the meeting the Ministers decided, among other things, (1) to aim at increasing the real gross national product of the 20 member countries taken together by 50 per cent during the decade f rom 1960 to 1970; (2) to make the agricultural policies of member countries the subject of continuous consultations within the OECD, in order to ensure that industrial and agricultural production develop harmoniously; (3) to aim at the maintenance of price sta- bility, so as to assure to their populations the fu ll benefits of economic growth; and (4) to have the Development Assistance Committee— formerly the Development Assistance Group and now incorporated in the OECD —institute, beginning in 1962, an annual review of the efforts and policies of its members in regard to aid to the less devel- oped countries. The OECD has among its committees a Working Party on Better Payments Equilibrium (usually referred to as Working Party No. 3 ), which meets periodically for the purpose of helping to coordinate the monetary and balance of payments policies of its members. The five Nordic countries,4 in March 1962, brought into effect an agreement between their central banks on short-term credits, as pro- posed by the Ministerial Committee for Nordic Economic Cooperation. According to this agreement, if any one of the countries concerned encounters balance of payments difficulties of a global nature, the Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS central bank of the country concerned can enter into swap transac- tions in a currency to be agreed upon, against its own currency, with the other central banks up to certain limits. Requests for swap trans- actions can, however, only be made after the country concerned has utilized its own holdings of foreign exchange reserves to a reasonable extent, and after the country has used the so-called gold tranche plus one credit tranche of its drawing rights in the Fund. The Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) came into force on June 1, 1961, after ratification by all the seven original signatory countries.5 In October, LAFTA began negotiations in Montevideo on the lists of goods to be proposed for tariff reductions and other preferences which member countries were prepared to grant to each other. In principle, these reductions and preferences are to remove annually 8 per cent of the existing trade barriers. The first tariff reductions, which amounted to over 12 per cent, became effective on January 1, 1962. Colombia and Ecuador have also joined the LAFTA, but too late to participate in the first round of tariff negotia- tions; however, in subsequent negotiations these countries have agreed to concessions of over 8 per cent. The contracting countries6 to the General Treaty of Central Ameri- can Economic Integration commenced work on the implementation of the Treaty's provision for the establishment of a common market among themselves. Three of the countries concerned (El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua) now have a common external tariff for about one half of the tariff items that are to be equalized. In September 1961, a Subcommittee on Trade met informally in Mexico City to prepare a list of the specified commodities which are not affected by the Treaty's provision of immediate free trade. The recommendations of the Subcommittee are subject to approval by the governments of the member countries. On August 2, 1961, a Preferential Trade Agreement was signed by Costa Rica, Panama, and Nicaragua, providing, among other things, for free or preferential treatment of trade among the contracting parties, as well as for exemption from quantitative restrictions other than those agreed upon by the parties concerned. 8 Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. 8 El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including six nonmetropolitan terri- tories, are given. The exchange systems of three other countries which were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1961. For a few countries, however, the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1962. A standardized framework has been employed in draf t ing the sur- veys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1961 and, for a few countries, the early months of 1962. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of most countries with multiple exchange rate systems, fu r ther details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low). The rates quoted are those effective as at December 30, 1961, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries or monetary areas, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and from such non- resident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional require- ments imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For most countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licens- ing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the proceeds be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EXPLANATORY NOTE TO COUNTRY SURVEYS Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. Under Banknotes, a head ing included in only a few of the country surveys, special arrangements concerning the negotiation of foreign banknotes within the country are described briefly. Under Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for most countries having a multiple currency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective as at December 30, 1961, or, in a few surveys, at a later date are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1961, the more significant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1961 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1962 are indicated at the end of the survey or in footnotes to the text. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Member Countries of the International Monetary Fund ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System No par value for the A fghani has been established with the Fund. There are two official rates: a budget rate of Af 20.00 buying, and Af 20.25 selling, per US$1, and an industrial rate of Af 28.00 buying, and Af 28.35 selling, per US$1. The budget rate applies to a few specified transactions. The industrial rate, plus a tax of Af 2.00 and/or a surcharge of Af 2.00, applies to some payments. In addition, there are three fluctuating free rates: one set by the Bank of Afghanistan (the central bank ), another set by the Pashtany Commercial Bank, and one prevailing in the bazaar. On December 21, 1961, the Bank of Afghanistan's f ree buying rate was Af 42.00, and the bazaar buying rate was Af 46.91, per US$1. The Pashtany Commercial Bank's free rate lies between these two rates. For all three f ree rates, the normal spread between the buying and selling rates is approximately 2 per cent, or Af 1.00 per US$1. Other effective rates arise f rom the obligation to surrender certain percentages of the proceeds from exports of karakul, cotton, wool, and six other commodities in mixed propor- tions at the two official rates, the remaining percentages being allowed at a f ree rate (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). Other transactions take place at the bazaar rate. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Bank of Afghanistan. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral trade and payments agreements must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements.1 The currencies of account under these agreements are U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars. However, exports to India under the agreement with that country are settled in Indian rupees, which must be used for imports from India. The proceeds f rom exports of cotton, wool, and karakul to other coun- 1 These countries are Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, India, Poland, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN tries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on imports. Licenses are required for imports f rom countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral trade and payments agreements. Exchange is provided for a few imports at the budget or at the industrial rate (plus tax and/or surcharge). Exchange for sugar and petroleum products imported by the government monopolies is provided at Af 30.35 per US$1 (the industrial rate plus Af 2.00 tax). Exchange for imports considered essential is provided at Af 32.35 per US$1 (the industrial rate plus tax and surcharge of Af 2.00 each ). One quarter of the c.i.f. price of imported motorcars (other than those imported by the government monopolies) must be paid for out of the proceeds of the importer's own exports of f ru i t; the remainder is payable at a free rate. All other imports are paid for at free rates. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles and payments to foreigners on government contract in Afghanistan are made at the budget rate. Foreigners' salaries payable in foreign exchange by the Government or any A fghan institution within Afghanistan are effected as follows: 30 per cent is paid in afghanis at the budget rate and the remaining 70 per cent may be transferred abroad or exchanged locally at a f ree rate. Payments for certain specified invisibles may be remitted at the budget or the industrial rate (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low). All other payments are settled at a free rate. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may not take out more than Af 500 in A fghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required for exports to countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral trade and payments agreements. Proceeds of exports of cotton and wool to these countries must be sold at specified rates. Exchange receipts from exports of cotton, wool, and karakul to other than agreement countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. Under multilateral trade, portions of the export proceeds of these three and of six other commodities must be surrendered at the two official rates; the remainder may be sold at a free rate. Proceeds obtained from exports of fru it by importers of motorcars may be used to pay for 25 per cent of the c.i.f. price of their car imports. The proceeds of all other exports may be sold at a f ree rate or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Proceeds from Invisibles Foreigners employed in Afghanistan by the Government or other A fghan institutions must surrender 30 per cent of their foreign exchange earnings at the budget rate through the Bank of Afghanistan; the remaining 70 per cent may be transferred abroad or exchanged locally at a free rate. All foreign exchange used by diplomatic establishments to meet their local expenses in afghanis must be surrendered to the Bank of Afghanistan at the budget rate. Exchange receipts from other invisibles are negotiable at free rates. Tourists and other nonresidents may convert their foreign exchange into afghanis at free rates. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital All foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval, which is granted readily if the investment is deemed conducive to the prosperity and economic and technical advancement of the country. The Law Encouraging the Investment of Private Foreign Capital in Afghanistan (November 18, 1958) provides that, beginning five years after the date of the investment, registered capital may be repatriated at a free rate in annual installments not exceeding one fifth of the amount invested. It also provides that ten years af ter the date of the investment the entire registered capital may be repatriated at a free rate at any time. The repatriation of up to 15 per cent a year of profits on registered capital (under the 1958 law or an earlier one) is guaranteed and may take place through an authorized bank at its free rate. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 21, 1961) (afghanis per U.S. dollar} Selling 20.25 (Budget Rate) Certain budgetary expenditures of the Government. A few imports. Certain students' expenses abroad. Buying 20.00 (Budget Rate) Thirty per cent of salaries of foreign employees. Exchange bought by the Bank of Afghanistan from diplomatic establishments. 24.66 (68% at Budget Rate, 17% at Industrial Rate, and 15% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of karakul. 26.40 (20% at Budget Rate and 80% at Industrial Rate) Exports of cotton and wool to bilateral agreement countries other than India. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (afghanis per U.S. dollar) Buying 28.00 (Industrial Rate) Selling 28.35 (Industrial Rate) 28.74 (17% at Budget Rate, 68% at Industrial Rate, and 16% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of cotton and wool to other than bilateral agreement countries. 36.40 (40% at Industrial Rate and 60% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of sesame seeds. 37.60 (20% at Budget Rate and 80% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of sheepskins and goatskins. 39.80 (10% at Budget Rate and 90% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of casings. 39.90 (15% at Industrial Rate and 85% at Central Bank's Free Rate) Exports of carpets and flaxseed. 42.00 (Central Bank's Fluctuating Free Rate)3 Other receipts. 30.35 (Industrial Rate plus Af 2 Ex- change Tax) Imports of sugar and petroleum prod- ucts by the government monopolies (including freight and insurance). 32.35 (Industrial Rate plus Af 2 Ex- change Tax and Af 2 Sur- charge) Essential imports (including freight and insurance); industrial equ ipmen t; cot- ton piecegoods for cooperative depots; imports by municipalities; other essen- tial goods (cement, medicines) to coun- ter domestic price increases. Business travel by industrial importers; medi- cal expenses; other students' expenses abroad; some pilgrims' travel. 43.00 (Central Bank's Free RateY Other payments. Fluctuating Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place dur ing 1961. 2 There are, in addition, the Pashtany Commercial Bank's free rate and the rate in the bazaar (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value of Argentine Pesos 18.00 — US$1 does not apply to any transactions under the present system. Purchases and sales of gold and foreign currencies, including foreign banknotes, take place without restriction in a free exchange market, in which the rate on Decem- ber 28, 1961 was M$N 83.02 per US$1.2 Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of institutions (banks, finance companies, and exchange dealers) authorized expressly for this purpose. The Central Bank of Argentina may intervene in the exchange market to avoid excessive variations arising f rom temporary factors. Prescription of Currency Under bilateral payments agreements with Spain, the U.S.S.R., and Uruguay, merchandise transactions and certain transactions in invisi- bles are settled in agreement dollars. Transactions with other countries must be settled in convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the free market. For goods imported by official agencies, approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy is required if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. For import purposes, commodities are listed in accordance with their essentiality and local production. Surcharges are established for these lists, independently of the corresponding customs duties paid in accord- ance with the Schedule of Valuations. Except for goods in List 1 (fue ls, principal metals, rubber, newsprint, etc.), surcharges on the c. & f. value of the invoice —unless it differs markedly from the normal import 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 26, 1962. 2 The foreign exchange market was closed on March 19, 1962 and was reopened on April 4. On April 9 an emergency 20 per cent additional surcharge was imposed on most imports; the exchange rate moved to about M$N 100.00 per US$1. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA value, in which case the latter value will be taken into account —are payable before customs clearance, as follows: 3 20 per cent on numerous raw materials, drugs, iron and steel bars, tinplate, book paper and paper for plates, woodpu lp, etc. (List 2) 40 per cent on semiprocessed articles, lumber, chemical products, etc. (List 3 ); and on most machinery and motors (Lists 6 and 6C) 80 per cent on semiprocessed products or raw materials produced locally (List 8) 100 per cent on spare parts, tires, tools, etc. (List 4 ); and on industrial machinery manu fac tu red locally, production of which does not fu l ly meet domestic demand or for which the surcharge represents sufficient protection (List 6A) 150 per cent on processed articles produced locally, the import of which is not essential (those included in List 5 ); on industrial machinery produced locally (List 6B ); and on all goods, other than machinery, not included in any of the lists 200 per cent on nonessential products and luxuries, e.g., whisky, bicycle chains, transistor radios, starters and fluorescent tubes, textiles and ready-made clothing of cotton, wool, artificial silk, etc. (List 7) There are, in addition, special regulations governing the application of or exemption f rom surcharge, as follows: (1) Imports of automobiles are subject to a special surcharge which varies with the weight and value of the automobile; import is prohibited when the unit weight and value exceed 1,500 kilograms and US$2,000, respectively.4 (2) The following are not subject to surcharge: imports of machinery and materials for certain vital industries (oil, coal, steel, power, and rail- roads) , as well as for the naval, aeronautical, textile, and petrochemical industries; imports of machinery for the establishment of special industries in certain regions of the country, development of which is being encouraged; imports of complete assembly lines and foreign investments guaranteed by prevailing Argentine legislation, even when part of them consists of machinery subject to surcharge under the prevailing regulations; certain imports originating in the bordering 3 These surcharges and exemptions do not take account of the changes on January 24, 1962 (see Note, pp. 26-27) and April 9, 1962 (see footnote 2, p. 23). 4 Imports of tractors of less than 85 horsepower require authorization from the National Tractor Board, and imports of parts for the local manufacture of motor vehicles are authorized in percentages which decrease every year in accordance with a program approved when production first began. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA countries and Peru; and personal effects imported by foreign diplomats as well as those of immigrants and travelers. Surcharges of less than 100 per cent paid on imports of certain raw materials and semifinished items which are subsequently incorpo- rated into exports are refunded at the time of export in the fo rm of a certificate, which may be applied against future payments of import duties or surcharges or, after six months, may be transferred to other importers or reimbursed in cash. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of direct controls, and the surrender of exchange proceeds is not required. Some of the principal export products are subject to retention taxes calculated on the basis of export prices fixed by the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury. The amounts retained are 10 per cent for wheat, oats, linseed oil, wool, processed hides, live cattle, and some other items, and 20 per cent for live horses, most raw hides, soap, and certain other items. The fu ll amount of the retention tax must be deposited, prior to shipment of the goods, with an institution authorized to deal in exchange, unless the export is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit payable against shipping documents or is made by a firm with a capital of over M$N 5 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be sold without restriction in the f ree market. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are f ree. The corresponding exchange transactions are settled through the f r ee market. Changes during 1961 During the year, the surcharges on imports were subject to frequent adjustment in accordance with the conditions prevailing at the time; only the more general changes are noted below. January 1. Settlements with Rumania (other than those for pur- chases of capital goods effected before December 31, 1960, which 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA continued to be carried out in bilateral currencies) were placed on a convertible currency basis. February 1. Settlements with Peru were placed on a convertible currency basis. February 4- Settlements with Chile were placed on a convertible currency basis. September 1. Settlements with Brazil were placed on a convertible currency basis. However, payments for imports f rom Brazil continued to be credited to the dollar account until cancellation of the debit balance of that country. September 14. The various procedures for determining the value of imports for the purpose of computing the import charges payable were standardized. September 20. The exemption from surcharge for certain commodities imported from neighboring countries and Peru was extended until December 31, 1961, taking into consideration that, beginning Janu- ary 1, 1962, the concession in respect of duties negotiated in the Latin American Free Trade Association would go into effect. October 2. Changes in surcharges would be applicable to all com- modities cleared through customs as from the day af ter the publication of the decree establishing them, with the exception of imports of machinery, motors, and capital goods, for which the previous surcharge would apply whenever their nature, production process, and delivery period warranted it. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1962: January 1. For imports f rom Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay, special concessions in regard to duties, apart f rom the general system, came into effect by virtue of the agreements arrived at by the member countries of the Latin American Free Trade Asso- ciation. January 4- A surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed on imports of petroleum and petroleum products in excess of established amounts. January 5. Government agencies perform ing activities related to petroleum, coal, the iron and steel industry, railroads, and power, and receiving special exemption f rom surcharges for the import of machin- ery and spare parts not produced locally, were required to request the approval of the Ministry of Economy to obtain the exemption. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA January 2^. Exemptions f rom the payment of surcharges applicable to imports of used machinery were discontinued until December 31, 1962. An additional temporary surcharge of 100 per cent was estab- lished until December 31, 1962 on the normal import price of cer- tain less essential commodities (processed food products, fine leather, morocco leather, furniture, notions, perfumes, china and porcelain, textiles in general, ceramics, glassware, etc.). January 24. Exemption from the payment of surcharges on certain commodities importea f r om Bolivia was extended until March 31,1962. January 26. A surcharge of 40 per cent was established on imports of machinery not produced locally. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Australian Pound 1 = US$2.24. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling: £A 125 buying, and £A 125/10/- selling, per £ stg. 100. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, based on market quotations in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar as at December 30, 1961 was US$2.2479 buying, and US$2.2348 selling, per £A 1. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and the Department of Customs and Excise, which are in consultation with the Treasury and the Reserve Bank on foreign currency aspects. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area currency, or in Australian currency from an account with a bank in Australia of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area. Payments for imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account, in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling from an External Account, in Australian currency from an appropriate nonresident account, or in any foreign currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. Under current policy, the balance on a nonresident account may be withdrawn by direct payment in a convertible currency. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely without import license. Goods subject to license represent about 10 per cent of current imports. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Payments for Invisibles All payments in respect of invisibles are subject to exchange control; but they are not restricted, the control operating solely to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. There is a basic exchange allowance of f A 2,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on application, provided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is required for bona fide travel expenses and does not represent an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for family mainte- nance and g i f ts; however, the treatment of applications for such transfers is liberal, and for fam i ly maintenance, amounts beyond the normal limit are approved on application. Travelers may not take out more than £A 25 in Australian notes. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, exports require licenses issued by the Department of Customs and Excise, to ensure that the full proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a further condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Proceeds f rom invisibles in other currencies do not have to be surrendered, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require specific exchange control approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital are allowed only in special cases. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents; however, no advance commitments are given in such cases. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA There are no restrictions on the receipt of capital f u n ds f rom abroad, but residents must obtain prior exchange control approval before borrowing foreign currency or incurring a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents need not be surrendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and practically all transactions in foreign securities are subject to specific exchange control approval. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place during 1961. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Austrian Schillings 26.00 = US$1. The off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar are a minimum middle rate of S 25.80, and a maximum middle rate of S 26.20, per US$1, at which rates the Austrian National Bank stands ready to dea l; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for Western European currencies fluctuate between limits resulting f rom the schilling rate for the dollar in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies in their respective countries. The forward premiums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Administration of Control Export or import licenses for goods listed in the Foreign Trade Law must be procured f rom the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction (Licensing Off ice), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, or the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues the exchange licenses where required. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Austria has bilateral pay- ments arrangements1 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible currency, or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two main categories of nonresident accounts in schillings, viz., Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts, which are maintained with authorized banks, originate from the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank or to an authorized bank, as well as from transactions authorized by a special or general license of the Austrian National Bank. These accounts may be used freely, including transfers from one Free Schilling Account to another and the conversion of balances on such accounts into any foreign currency. 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Blocked Accounts are applied mainly vis-a-vis the bilateral coun- tries and have little significance for other countries. Imports and Import Payments The following imports are free of quantitative restrictions:2 (1) goods included in an extensive liberalization list which applies to imports from OECD countries in Europe and their dependent overseas territories and covers about 90 per cent of all Austrian private imports calculated on the basis of 1952; (2) goods included in an equally extensive liberalization list which applies to imports f rom the United States and Canada and covers about 90 per cent of all Austrian private imports calculated on the basis of 1953; (3) goods included in a liberalization list which applies to imports f rom all OECD members and their dependent overseas territories and covers an additional 3 per cent of all Austrian private imports calculated on the basis of 1952 and 1953; and (4) goods included in a liberalization list which applies to imports from all Con trac t ing Parties to the GATT (except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan) and covers 70 per cent of all Austrian imports calculated on the basis of 1959. Imports in the first l ibe ra l iza t ion list may be made w i thout license. Imports in the other three liberalization lists require licenses, wh ich are, however, issued automatically. A limited number of commodities not listed in the Foreign Trade Law, as well as certain minor imports, may be imported without license f rom any country. All other imports require individual licenses &nd are dealt with under various procedures, such as global quotas,3 bilateral quotas provided for under certain bilateral trade agreements, compensation (barter) transactions, and individual discretionary licensing. Imports under compensation (barter) transactions are usually licensed only in cases where Austria does not maintain a payments agreement with the exporting country and there is no other way of settling payments. Payments for goods imported from and originating in countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements require exchange licenses. In order to make payments related to imports from other countries, importers may utilize freely their retained export and other 2 The liberalization percentages given here are as at January 1, 1962. 8 On January 1,1962, a list of global quotas for goods imported from all member countries of the OECD was put into effect. This list comprises the previous global quotas for imports f rom member countries of the EFT A and the OECD and the quotas under bilateral trade agreements with member countries of the OECD. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA proceeds in convertible currencies held with Austrian foreign exchange dealers, or they may purchase such currencies freely from them. Payments for Invisibles Payments for nearly all transactions in invisibles may be made freely to countries that settle with Austria in convertible currencies. For payments to other countries, licenses are granted a f ter account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral agreements and other considera- tions, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases. Residents traveling as tourists to countries that settle with Austria in convertible currencies may receive yearly allocations of exchange up to the equivalent of S 10,000.4 Persons leaving Austria as tourists may take with them S 10,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for those exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be procured f rom the compe tent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction (Licensing O f f i c e ), the Federal Ministry of Agr icu l ture and Forestry, or the Federal Ministry of the Interior; goods exported by way of compensation (barter) are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction. In the issuance of export licenses, due consideration is given to the provisions of any relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l l- ment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and to the needs of the Austrian economy. Other exports are free of license. Export proceeds and export claims must be declared within eight days from the date of collection. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for conversion into any other convertible currency or for payment of the holder's debts to creditors in countries which settle with Austria in convertible cur- rencies, as far as such payments are permitted under general or indi- vidual license. Such deposits in bilateral clearing currencies may be used if an individual license is obtained. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles have to be declared within eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or 4 With effect from January 1, 1962, this yearly allocation was raised to S 15,000 a person, irrespective of age. (Previously, the allocation for a child under the age of 12 was one half of that for an adult.) 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA deposited with an authorized bank. Persons entering Austrian terri- tory are free to bring in Austrian or foreign notes and coins without limit. Capital Investments in Austria by nonresidents are generally permitted if made in convertible currencies or out of f ree or originally owned blocked schilling balances. Special licenses are required for invest- ments f inanced by other means of payment, and for loans by nonresi- dents to residents. These licenses are granted a f ter c a r e ful scrutiny of each case, the interest of the national economy as a whole being taken into consideration. Foreign exchange brought in for these purposes must, in principle, be surrendered. The capital and capital proceeds arising f rom investments may be retransferred freely. Under an open license, the Austrian National Bank permits upon application and documentation the fo l low ing transfers related to capital transactions in favor of residents of countries which settle with Austria in convertible currencies: (1) proceeds f rom the liquidation of Austrian enterprises in which these nonresidents have participated, as well as proceeds f rom the sale of shares in such enterprises; (2) proceeds f rom the sale of Austrian securities ( the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign securities and of Austrian bonds denominated in foreign currency are not covered by this p rov is ion ); (3) proceeds from the sale of real estate (or shares in real estate); (4) repayment of loans and credits by Austrian residents to nonresidents insofar as the payments do not represent contractual amortization (the transfer of contractual amortization is permitted by general l icense ); and (5) payments for claims which have passed from Austrian residents to nonresidents by inheritance. The transfer of capital abroad by residents is subject to approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Transfers to OECD countries of exchange representing dowries and remigrants' funds are permitted automatically without limit, upon application and documen- tation. An open license permits the export of securities for the purpose of realizing rights and claims thereunder abroad, the export of non- resident-owned securities, and the export of resident-owned foreign securities for sale abroad (the proceeds must be declared and sur- rendered). Nonresidents may acquire Austrian securities against payment in convertible currencies or to the debit of Free Schilling Accounts or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA above). Proceeds f rom the sale of such securities acquired against convertible currencies or to the debit of Free Schilling Accounts, and amortization and earnings thereon, may be transferred freely to owners residing in any country. Changes during 1961 May 10. The bilateral payments agreement with Greece was terminated, and settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was ter- minated, and settlements with that country were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. July 1. The percentage for liberalized imports f rom Contracting Parties to the GATT (except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan) was raised from 40 per cent to 50 per cent (1959 basis). 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rale System The par values are Belgian Francs 50.00 = US$1 and Luxembourg Francs 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —official and free. Current transactions are settled through the official market and f inanc ial (i.e., capital and certain current) transactions through the free market, although for most outgoing and a few incoming current payments there is a choice between the two exchange markets. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1; the rates for the other currencies fluctuate between limits resulting from the Belgian f ranc rate for the U.S. dollar in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies in their respective countries. Forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks in any foreign currency against Belgian and Luxembourg francs, and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies.1 Residents may sell exchange derived f rom certain transactions of a noncommercial nature in the free exchange market, and they may use exchange purchased in the free market for all payments except to bilateral countries. In the free market, all currencies may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired in the free market may be sold in the official market, but no other transfers between the two markets are permitted. Exchange trans- actions in connection with the free gold market are also carried out in the free exchange market. Rates in the free exchange market correspond to rates in free exchange markets in other countries; as at December 29, 1961, the rate for the U.S. dollar was approximately BF 49.775 buying, and BF 49.78 selling, per US$1. Belgium accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961, but continued to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV in respect of Ruanda-Urundi. Luxembourg also accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Austrian schillings, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion), and the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change, which is the central exchange control authority for the Union. Administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks, but in special cases authorized banks must submit requests for authoriza- tion to the central authority. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresident account. All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commercial expenses including insurance; List B covers settle- ments of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments, and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquida- tion of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (the Congo,2 Ruanda-Urundi, and the U.S.S.R.) and the convertible area (all other countries). 2 The term "the Congo" is used in this survey to designate the Republic of the Congo (Leopoldville). 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible currencies received f rom transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxem- bourg f rancs can also be settled through a Financial or a Convertible Account. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS'* TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments A ,B , a n dC Convertible Any D Convertible Any A, B, C, and D Bilateral Official or free Free Inward Payments NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Any Financial Bilateral 4 A a n dB Convertible Convertible Official C a n dD Convertible Convertible Other Official or free Free A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official Convertible } Convertible or Financial Convertible or Bilateral 4 Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r anc accounts of nonresidents are classified in three types. The use of these accounts, in addition to their use for the settlement of transactions with residents as indicated in the last column of the table above, is outlined below. 1. Convertible Accounts. These accounts are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened 3 Settlements with the United Arab Republic may also be made in Egyptian pounds through the free market. 4 Bilateral Account of the country concerned. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG in the name of any nonresident. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. 2. Bilateral Accounts. These are the accounts of residents of bilateral countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to the Congo and those related to Ruanda-Urundi. 3. Financial Accounts. These accounts are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened for any nonresident except a resident of a bilateral country.5 They are primarily for capital transfers and traveling expenses, although other specified settlements, such as those related to dealings in gold, may be made through them. Balances on Financial Accounts may be transferred only to other Financial Accounts. Financial Accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the f ree market and of convertible currencies in the official market. They are exchangeable into gold or any currency through the free market. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from all countries require import licenses, as do all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. All other imports are free of license, and only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the import is required. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Where the requirements are not fu lf i l led, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission. 5 Persons resident in the Congo or Ruanda-Urundi are authorized to maintain "assimilated" resident accounts. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Payments for Invisibles If payments for invisibles are to be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account, supporting documents must be presented to an authorized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval of the central exchange control authority is required. Payments for other invisibles may be made through the free market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods to all countries require export licenses, as do all exports to Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. All other exports are free of license, and only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notification of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an au thor ized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies f rom invisibles connected with certain commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t ), or, alternatively, they may be held in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out freely through the f ree market or by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG the Financial Account of a nonresident. In addition, incoming capital may be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatria- tion of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market may be repatriated through that market. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must con fo rm to the general regulations. Banknotes Transactions in foreign and domestic banknotes may be carried out freely by all residents and nonresidents at freely fluctuating rates. Banknotes may be imported and exported without restriction, but they may be used only for travel expenses, banknote arbitrage, and the purchase and sale of gold. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited freely to the Financial Accounts of nonresidents. Changes during 1961 January 1. Bilateral Accounts could be maintained for any resident of a bilateral country, and not only, as previously, for authorized banks in those countries. February 8. Turkey ceased to be treated as a bilateral country and was included in the convertible area. September 4- Transactions on Lists C and D with bilateral countries could no longer be settled through the free market or in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs through Financial Accounts. Payments to bilateral countries could be made only through the appropriate Bilateral Account; receipts could, however, also be accepted in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs from a Convertible Account or in convertible currencies sold in the official market. Residents of bilateral countries could no longer maintain Financial Accounts; existing balances could be transferred to a Bilateral Account related to the country of residence of the account holder or used to purchase foreign currencies in the free market. Alternatively, Financial Accounts in the names of individuals resident in the Congo or in Ruanda-Urundi could be trans- formed, on the request of the account holder, into "assimilated" resident accounts, to be treated like those of residents of Belgium- Luxembourg. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System The par value of Bolivianos 190.00 = US$1, established on May 14, 1953, is not applied to any transactions. All exchange transactions are carried out in a f ree market, in which the exchange rates have remained stable since January 1959. For operational purposes, the f ree market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank operates in the public sector, buy ing foreign exchange f rom the Government, the off ic ial enterprises, and the Bolivian Mining Corporation, and selling foreign exchange to the Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, the Government, and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Central Bank on December 30, 1961 was Bs 11,875 buying, and Bs 11,885 selling, per US$1. The Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the foreign exchange dealers operate in the private sector, where the exchange rate on December 30, 1961 was Bs 11,865 buying, and Bs 11,910 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange in the private sector are subject to a 2 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Administration of Control As fiscal agent of the Government, the Central Bank of Bolivia, through the Ministry of Finance, executes the exchange budget for foreign payments by the Government and its agencies. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Private imports are free of import and exchange licensing, and exchange to pay for such imports may be purchased freely through the free market. Imports by the Government and its agencies are governed by an exchange budget and are paid for with exchange purchased from the Central Bank at the rate of the day. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles and capital transfers may be made freely through the free market. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. The Bolivian Mining Corporation is responsible for exports of the minerals produced in its own mines. Certain minerals produced by private mines with a declared capital of US$100,000 or more are exported by the enterprises concerned. Minerals produced by mines with a declared capital of less than US$100,000 are exported through the Mining Bank of Bolivia, which also carries out all exports of gold, tin, lead, silver, antimony, wolfram, bismuth, zinc, and sulphur. The Bolivian Government Petroleum Corporation is responsible for exports of petroleum. All exchange receipts f rom exports by official agencies are sur- rendered to the Central Bank at the free market rate, with the excep- tion of the portion retained by the Mining Corporation for its own use. Proceeds f rom other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the free market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Taxes (regalias) on exports are payable in convertible currency or domestic currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents are free of control and may be made through the free market. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of December 16, 1960, which guarantees the free convertibility and repatriation of amortized capital and profits. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit from its provisions. Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Mining Code. Changes during 1961 February 8. All mining establishments with a declared capital of not less than US$100,000 were free to export certain minerals (copper, asbestos, etc.) from Bolivia without permission of the Mining Bank. Gold, tin, lead, silver, antimony, wolfram, bismuth, zinc, and sulphur would still be exported exclusively by the Mining Bank. May. The bilateral payments agreements with Chile, Uruguay, and Spain were denounced, and transactions with those countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL1 Exchange Rate System The par value of Brazilian Cruzeiros 18.50 = US$1, established on July 14, 1948, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There is a free exchange market, where the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar is Cr$310 buying, and Cr$318 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are based on these rates and the dollar quotations for such currencies in international markets. Exchange rates for "agreement currencies" are quoted at a 5 per cent discount, except agreement dollars for Argentina, Chile,2 and the U.S.S.R., which are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. The calculation of the effective rates must, however, take account of certain costs related to exchange transactions, namely, (1) deductions from coffee and cocoa export proceeds; (2) the purchase of 150-day Bank of Brazil bills by importers for 140 per cent of the value in cruzeiros of some imports; and (3) the deposit by authorized banks for 180 days of 40 per cent of the value of exchange sold for all payments in excess of US$250, except payments for imports and payments for freight on General Cate- gory imports (see also Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). A large proportion of the exchange transactions are carried out through the Bank of Brazil. The Bank of Brazil does not supply the authorized banks with foreign exchange, nor does it sell foreign exchange for financial transactions, except where there are contractual commitments. The authorized banks may use for all outgoing payments the foreign exchange purchased by them, except for 80 per cent of coffee and cocoa receipts (not including the retention quo ta), which they must transfer to the Bank of Brazil. Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Bank of Brazil under the direction of the Council of the Superintendency of Money and Credit (SUMOC). The Exchange Department of the Bank organizes the auc- tions of promessas de licenga (which entitle the holder to receive an import license for Special Category impor ts). It establishes the total 1 In view of certain changes that became effective in January 1962 (see the item under December 15 in the section on Changes during 1961), this survey presents the position as at January 31, 1962. 2 The agreements with Argentina and Chile having expired, imports are settled in convertible currencies, with effect from September 1 and October 1, 1961, respectively; but exports continue to be settled in agreement currency until the debit balances are liquidated. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL value of promessas de licen^a on the basis of criteria approved by the Council of the SUMOC and having obtained the opinion of the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank. Government departments and public entities are requested to present to the Exchange Department semiannual estimates of their needs for imports and service payments. These are reviewed by the Council of the SUMOC and eventually included in the foreign exchange budget. The Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil issues export and import licenses, and exercises control over prices, weights, measures, classifications, and types in export and import operations that are sub- ject to license. The Customs Policy Council presides over changes in the categories of import commodities, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Most sales and purchases of exchange pass through the Bank of Brazil and banks authorized for this purpose. The latter are required to sell daily to the Bank of Brazil or other authorized banks all their exchange holdings in excess of prescribed limits; there is also a maximum limit on the amount that may be sold. All receipts under bilateral payments agreements must pass through the Bank of Brazil. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with the dollar area, Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom may be made in the currency of any of these countries or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with payments agree- ment countries are made through the relevant agreement accounts. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Portugal, Ruma- nia, Spain (this agreement was denounced on October 25, 1961), Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; in Danish kroner with Den- mark; and in clearing sterling with Iceland. Fruit trade with Argentina, all trade with Bolivia except Brazilian exports of coffee and cocoa, and frontier trade with Paraguay are settled in cruzeiros. Settle- ments with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments The Bank of Brazil makes quarterly contracts to sell exchange for imports of wheat, petroleum, and petroleum derivatives. All imports 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL are classified in two categories, in accordance with their essentiality: (1) General Category —raw materials, equipment, and other production goods, as well as a few goods for general consumption whose supply in the domestic market is not satisfactory —and (2) Special Category— all other goods. For General Category imports, no import license is required but a certificate of exchange cover must be obtained from the authorities. This is granted provided that the importer (a) signs an exchange contract with either the Bank of Brazil3 or an authorized bank (if with the latter, the exchange contract must not exceed 180 d a y s ); (b) makes an advance deposit in cruzeiros at the bank concerned, if the exchange contract exceeds 30 days, for an amount equal to at least 10 per cent of the import payment; (c) deposits with the Bank of Brazil 140 per cent of the value in cruzeiros of the exchange contract, against the issue of 150-day bills of the Bank of Brazil bearing interest at 6 per cent per annum;4 and (d) provides information on the cost of the goods and all other information required by the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil. For Special Category imports, import licenses are required. These are granted by the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil up to the amount of a promessa de liceuQa (valid for 30 days) acquired at auction, and provided that the importer complies with conditions (a) through (d) above for General Category imports. Auctions are either in clearing dollars, for imports f rom any bilateral agreement country, or in convertible U.S. dollars, for imports from all other countries. A minimum bid is established for these auctions; as at January 30, 1962, this was Cr$662.60 per US$1. As a rule, an importer may acquire up to US$50,000 in convertible exchange, plus up to US$20,000 in agreement currencies, in any one week; he may acquire additional amounts of agreement currencies to the extent that he does not obtain convertible exchange. For imports financed abroad of machinery and equipment for the establishment of industrial units or the expansion of existing ones, 3 At present, the Bank of Brazil does not as a rule close exchange contracts for these payments for less than 90 days. 4 This requirement does not apply to imports originating in countries that are members of the Latin American Free Trade Association; imports of machinery and equipment for the establishment of industrial units or the expansion of existing ones; imports made directly by public entities; and imports of news- print, wheat, petroleum and derivatives, rubber, animals for breeding, seeds for planting, barbed wire, maps, books, newspapers, magazines, fertilizers, and insecti- cides. The amount of the deposit required is to be reduced at the beginning of each month by 10 percentage points (see section on Changes during 1901, Decem- ber 15, below). 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL import licenses f rom the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil are required. Other imports without exchange cover also require individual licenses issued by the Foreign Trade Department, which grants the license only when it is satisfied that the import represents a genuine investment or donation. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks selling exchange for payments for invisibles in excess of US$250 must make a 180-day deposit in cruzeiros in favor of the SUMOC equivalent to 40 per cent of the value in cruzeiros of the exchange sold.5 They usually ask the buyer of exchange to advance the sum involved. Payments for freight on imports in the General Category are subject to the same regulations as payments for the related goods. Payments for freight on imports in the Special Category are subject to the 40 per cent deposit requirement, but not to the purchase of Bank of Brazil bills. Insurance, when included in the value of the transaction, is subject to payment against the purchase of Bank of Brazil bills, but not to the 40 per cent deposit requirement. The insurance of goods in Brazil, or of imports when the import license has been issued on a c. & f. basis, may be taken out only in cruzeiros. Exchange for other transactions in invisibles may be purchased in the market, except that the Bank of Brazil as a rule does not sell exchange for transactions except where there are contractual commitments. Banks and travel agencies sell up to US$250 (foreign banknotes and travelers checks) to bona fide travelers for travel abroad, upon presen- tation of valid passports and tickets. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to export license, with the exception of exports of coffee, which are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. Export licenses are granted without limitation except when (1) the export is contrary to national security or to obligations arising f rom international agreements, (2) payment is to be made in an incon- vertible currency the acceptance of which is considered by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil to be inconvenient, or (3) it is con- sidered necessary to guarantee adequate domestic supplies of the goods concerned. All exports are subject to shipping permits issued by the Exchange Department. 5 The amount of the deposit required is to be reduced at the beginning of each month by 10 percentage points (see section on Changes during 1961, December 15, below). 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exporters of coffee are required to surrender to the SUMOC through the Bank of Brazil without compensation an amount of foreign exchange equal to US$22 per bag, the cruzeiro equivalent of which is deposited in a "fund for the defense of coffee." Exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender to the SUMOC without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; the countervalue in cruzeiros is to be used to aid a program of price support and plantation improve- ment for cocoa. Mining companies are permitted to retain abroad a percentage, which is determined by the Council of the SUMOC, of their export proceeds to service registered loans contracted to pay for goods and services to develop their industry. All other export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank at the free market rate. The authorized banks may use these receipts for any payment, except that they may use only 20 per cent ( a f t er delivery of the quota to the SUMOC) of their receipts f rom exports of coffee and cocoa; the remainder must be transferred to the Bank of Brazil. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles are sold in the f ree market. Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital The inflow and outflow of foreign investments take place through the free market. Imports by foreign investors of groups of equipment, or, exception- ally, of equipment intended to complete or improve the capacity of existing groups, may be authorized provided there is sufficient proof that no payment therefor will be transferred abroad. For direct invest- ments and the financing of imports, a license must be obtained f rom the Foreign Trade Department, the Exchange Department and the SUMOC being consulted for this purpose; the SUMOC then records these transactions for statistical purposes. Repayments of principal and transfers of interest are effected through the free market. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 31,1962)6 (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying 263.50 (Free Rate less 15% Contribu- tion Quota} Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 310.00 (Free Rate} All other export proceeds. Selling 318.00 (Free Rate} All payments not subject to other rates. 325.16 (Special Rate} Imports of petroleum.7 327.54 (Special Rate} Imports of wheat.7 Changes during 1961 At various times during the year, numerous import commodities were shifted from the Special to the General Category. March 14- The auctioning of exchange was abolished, and exchange to pay for imports in the General Category and in the Special Category was to be obtained in the free exchange market. For these imports the importer was required, in addition to paying for his exchange at the free market rate, to purchase 150-day bills, issued by the Bank of Brazil in local currency and bearing interest at 6 per cent per annum, for a value equivalent to the payment on an f.o.b. basis. A certificate of exchange cover continued to be necessary for imports in the General Category. Special Category imports would require import licenses, which would be granted to holders of promessas de licenga; the latter would be auctioned on the basis of global quotas. Importers could not acquire in any one week exchange equivalent to more than US$20,000. March 14- Transactions at par value rates were discontinued. New exchange rates would apply as follows (in terms of cruzeiros per US$1, with the previous rate in parentheses): (1) payments for preferential imports (petroleum, wheat, newsprint), Cr$200 (Cr$100), payable Cr$150 at the time the import is authorized and Cr$50 after 120 days; (2) outward financial transfers previously subject to the preferential 6 No account is taken in this table of (1) the cost to importers of purchasing 150-day 6 per cent bills of the Bank of Brazil for 140 per cent of the value of the goods; (2) the cost to purchasers of exchange for payments subject to a 180-day deposit of 40 per cent of the value of the exchange acquired; and (3) the cost to exporters of coffee and cocoa of surrendering a part of their exchange proceeds without compensation. 7 For contracts concluded in the first quarter of 1962. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL rate, Cr$200 (Cr$100), payable Cr$150 at the time of transfer and Cr$50 after 120 days; (3) proceeds of coffee exports, Cr$90 (un ch ang ed ); (4) proceeds of cocoa exports, Cr$90 for beans and Cr$100 for derivatives (unchanged); (5) proceeds of exports of castor beans and of crude petroleum and its derivatives, free market rate (Cr$100). For export proceeds sold in the f ree market, Cr$100 per US$1 would be paid in the form of 120-day notes of the Bank of Brazil bearing interest at 6 per cent per annum, and the remainder in local currency. Free market rates for inconvertible currencies continued to be determined by the Bank of Brazil. April 5. The exchange rate applicable to exports of cocoa beans, cocoa butter, cocoa paste, and cocoa cake was established at Cr$210 per US$1. April 7. The authorized banks were instructed, when closing con- tracts on the free market to sell convertible currencies in payment of imports, to require from importers cruzeiro deposits equivalent to the total value of the transaction involved and to forward these deposits to the Bank of Brazil within 48 hours. These deposits were returnable upon maturity of the contract and could be used by the importer to pay for the foreign exchange. April 14. It was announced that the exchange cover certificates required for General Category imports would be issued in the currency of the respective exchange contract, i.e., in the currency prescribed for payments to the exporting country. May 4- It was established that importers could acquire the equivalent of US$20,000 weekly in agreement currencies, in addition to US$20,000 in convertible currencies. May 12. Coffee exporters were required to deliver to the Bank of Brazil, to the order of the SUMOC, a portion of their exchange pro- ceeds without compensation, the remainder being negotiable with the Bank of Brazil at the free market rate. These compulsory contributions would be deposited in a "fund for the defense of coffee." The por- tions were set as fo l lows: for the 1961-62 crop, US$22 (or the equiv- alent in other currencies) per 60-kilogram bag of green coffee or 48-kilogram bag of roasted or ground co f fee; for the 1960-61 and previ- ous crops, US$24 per 60-kilogram bag of green coffee or 48-kilogram bag of roasted or ground coffee f rom the states of Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco, Bahia, and Santa Catarina, and for inferior grades from Minas Gerais, and US$26 per bag for other coffees. It was stated that should exchange rates move outside certain ranges, thus affecting the world price of coffee, adjustments would be made in the portion to be surrendered so as to provide exporters with a stable cru- 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL zeiro return per bag. For coffees of the 1961-62 crop, the range was set at Cr$265-275 per US$1 (Cr$270-275 per US$1 for all coffee from Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco, Bahia, and Santa Cata- rina, and for inferior grades from Minas Gerais). For the 1960-61 and previous crops, the range was set at Cr$257-262 per US$1. May 22 The amount payable in 120-day 6 per cent Bank of Brazil notes to exporters selling their proceeds in the free market (see March 14, above) was reduced f rom Cr$100 to Cr$80 per US$1, and it was announced that this amount would be reduced by Cr$20 every month, beginning July 1, 1961. May 22. The weekly convertible exchange quota allowed to import- ers was increased f rom US$20,000 to US$50,000 (see March 14, above). May 23. It was announced that the cruzeiro deposits for purchases of convertible currencies in the free exchange market for the payment of General and Special Category imports (see April 7, above) would be reduced from 100 per cent to 10 per cent of the value of each exchange contract. These deposits, which no longer had to be transferred by the authorized banks to the Bank of Brazil and were required only for sales on terms exceeding 30 days, were returnable on settlement of the exchange contract and could be used by the importer in part payment of the exchange. May 81. It was announced that, beginning on June 6, weekly auc- tions of promessas de licen$a (see March 14, above) would be held on Tuesdays at the stock exchanges. Offers would be in lots of US$100 and US$500 (or the equivalent in other currencies). The first auction would be for promessas in U.S. dollars, and the initial minimum premium would not be less than the weighted average of the premiums obtained at the last auction held before March 14, 1961 for U.S. dollar exchange certificates for Special Category imports. Bilateral agreement currencies would be offered in the second week, the minimum premium being that corresponding to the weighted average of the premiums paid at the U.S. dollar auctions held the previous week. Promessas de licenqa would be valid for 30 days, during which period the importer must conclude a foreign exchange contract in the f ree market to cover the f.o.b. value of the import. An import license would be granted against delivery of the original of the promessa, the importer having complied with all other existing regulations. Payment for the promessa must be made within 3 working days beginning with the second working day following that of purchase. June 6. The first auction of promessas de licenga for Special Category imports was held. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL June 17. Imports of rubber were exempted f rom payment against the purchase of Bank of Brazil bills. June 27. Imports of maps, books, newspapers, and magazines through the free exchange market were exempted f rom prior import deposit requirements. July 1. The following changes were made in the import licensing and payments system: (1) Exchange to pay for imports that formerly enjoyed a preferential rate of exchange (wheat, newsprint, petroleum and derivatives, certain equipment for the petroleum and printing industries, specified government imports, insecticides, and fertilizers), and exchange for all financial transfers previously subject to the preferential rate, was to be obtained in the free exchange market. It was also announced that the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil would enter into quarterly contracts to sell exchange for imports of wheat, petroleum, and petroleum derivatives. (2) Imports of machinery and equipment for the establishment of industrial units or the expansion of existing ones, financed abroad or effected without exchange cover, were made subject to an amended procedure: invest- ments without exchange cover, which were formerly licensed by the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil, were made subject to the additional approval of the Exchange Department and the SUMOC, and the financing operations, which had hitherto been subject to the initial approval of the SUMOC, were made subject to the same procedure. The SUMOC would record both kinds of transaction, for statistical purposes. (3) The following were exempted from the advance purchase of 150-day 6 per cent Bank of Brazil bills: imports originating from countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association; imports of machinery and equipment for the establishment of industrial units or the expansion of existing ones; imports made directly by public entities; and imports of petroleum, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and insecticides. August 28. Forward sales of foreign exchange were temporarily suspended. August 29. Imports of animals for breeding, seeds for planting, and barbed wire were exempted from payment against the purchase of Bank of Brazil bills. August SO. It was decreed that financial transfers abroad of amounts in excess of US$250 (or the equivalent in other currencies) should be made exclusively through the Bank of Brazil and would be limited to US$5,000 weekly for each bank. August SO. The weekly limit of convertible exchange available to importers was reduced f rom the equivalent of US$50,000 to US$20,000 (see May 22, above). 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL September 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Argentina lapsed. Henceforth, settlements for imports from Argentina would be made in convertible currencies. However, exports would continue to be made against agreement currency until the balance was liquidated. Special arrangements would continue to apply to trade in fruit. September 15. Forward sales of foreign exchange (suspended on August 28) were resumed. The regulation of August 30 on financial transfers abroad was revoked. The weekly limit of convertible exchange available to importers was raised from US$20,000 to US$50,000 (see August 30, above). September 25. The Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil was authorized to license exports of capital goods and consumer durable goods, where not more than 80 per cent of their value is financed in convertible currency. The Foreign Trade Department could also allow refinancing in cruzeiros of up to 75 per cent of the financed amount. For these, the exporter had to contract with the Bank of Brazil for the surrender of the exchange. The documents representing the financed exports could be negotiated freely in Brazil or abroad in their original currency, and could also be purchased or guaranteed by credit, finance, and investment companies having a paid-up capital of at least Cr$100 million. The Foreign Trade Department would use funds derived from the following for its cruzeiro refinancing operations: loans from international credit institutions; the counterpart of con- solidated loans obtained by Brazil; and a revolving fund to be opened by the Bank of Brazil on behalf of the National Treasury. September 29. The bilateral payments agreement with Norway lapsed. Henceforth, settlements with that country would be made in convertible currencies. October 1. The bilateral payments agreements with Chile and Uruguay lapsed. Henceforth, settlements with Uruguay and payments for imports from Chile would be made in convertible currencies. Exports to Chile would continue to be settled in agreement currency until the debit balance was liquidated. October 1. The issue of Bank of Brazil notes to exporters ceased (see May 22, above). October 4- The exchange proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste had to be surrendered at the free market rate, except for 15 per cent of the total, which had to be surrendered to the SUMOC without compensation to help to cover the cost of the domestic price- support program for cocoa and for a cocoa plantation improvement program. The entire proceeds from exports of cocoa by-products could be negotiated in the free market. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL October 4- The portion of coffee export proceeds which had to be surrendered to the Bank of Brazil to the order of the SUMOC without compensation, to be deposited in a "fund for the defense of coffee" (see May 12, above), was reduced by US$2 per bag for coffees of the 1960-61 and previous crops. October 9. The amount of 150-day 6 per cent Bank of Brazil bills which importers were required to purchase in order to effect imports was increased from 100 per cent to 150 per cent of the value of the goods. October 10. The sale of clearing dollars on Rumanian account was suspended for new contracts. October 25. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was denounced. October 26. The free exchange market was divided into a trade exchange market and a "financial" free market. In the trade exchange market, export proceeds (other than from coffee and cocoa, which had to be passed to the Bank of Brazil) purchased by the authorized banks could be sold only for payments for General Category imports and related freight charges. In the "financial" free market, in which all other exchange transactions took place, authorized banks must, on the first day subsequent to a sale of exchange, lodge a 180-day cruzeiro deposit to the order of the SUMOC, equivalent to 50 per cent of the value of the exchange sold. Transfers of exchange to the Bank of Brazil were exempted f rom these requirements. November 18. The portion of coffee export proceeds which had to be surrendered to the Bank of Brazil to the order of the SUMOC with- out compensation, to be deposited in a "fund for the defense of coffee" (see May 12 and October 4, above), was established at US$22 (or the equivalent in other currencies) per bag of 60 kilograms of raw coffee, or 48 kilograms of roasted or ground coffee, for exports of the 1961-62 and earlier crops. December 15. It was announced that, from January 1, 1962, the amount of the 150-day deposit requirement applied to imports (see March 14 and October 9, above) would be reduced from 150 per cent to 140 per cent, and thereafter by 10 percentage points at the beginning of each month. At the same time, it was announced that, also f rom January 1, 1962, the 180-day deposit requirement on payments other than for General Category imports (see October 26, above) would be reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent, and thereafter by 10 per- centage points at the beginning of each month. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL December 29. The distinction between the trade exchange market and the "financial" free market (see October 26, above) was removed by canceling the requirement that authorized banks could sell the exchange proceeds of exports only for payments for General Category imports. In addition, the authorized banks were permitted to retain 20 per cent (after delivery of the quota to the SUMOC) of their exchange receipts from exports of coffee and cocoa. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Burmese Kyats 4.76190 = US$1. The kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 = £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling rate and the rates for other currencies in the London exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board. Import and export controls are managed by the Directorate of Imports and Exports under the administrative control of the Ministry of Trade Development, but export control is also exercised by the State Agricultural Marketing Board and the State Timber Board, according to the commodities concerned. The registration of exporters and importers is carried out by the Registration Board. Prescription of Currency Burma is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Main- land China, with which Burma has a bilateral payments agreement, must be made through a bilateral account denominated in sterling.1 Payments to other countries may be made in sterling through an External Account, in any non-sterling currency, or by crediting kyats to the account of a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Prescription of currency requirements for receipts are the same as those for payments, except that if foreign currency is obtained it must be one of the specified currencies. Imports and Import Payments Unless specially exempted, private importers must be registered with the Registration Board. Most imports that are made through agents must be made through registered Burmese firms, which alone are allowed to handle such business. Except for imports by the Govern- ment (largely capital goods), most imports are subject to individual 1 Burma's bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. was terminated on July 1, 1960; but pending the liquidation of the balance on the clearing account in favor of Burma, all imports from the UJ3.S.R. continue to be settled through that account. Similarly, Burma's bilateral payments agreement with India expired on September 5, 1961; but until the clearing balance is liquidated, exports and imports of certain goods to and from India continue to be settled through the clearing account. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA import license. Individual import licenses are divided among registered private traders, industries, mines, Joint Venture Corporations, and cooperatives, in accordance with an exchange budget. Goods which may be imported for private trade are classified in 38 groups. Licenses are issued for each group, primarily to registered private traders, and directives are issued by the Directorate of Imports and Exports to indicate which commodities in each group may be imported and under what limitations and/or conditions. Bulk licenses to import certain categories of goods, such as foodstuffs, textiles, hardware, building materials, and a few selected industrial materials, are granted to the nine Joint Venture Corporations (in which both private investors and the Government participate). Other importers are excluded from importing or distributing commodities reserved for the Joint Venture Corporations. Similarly, the central cooperatives are granted a bulk license to import various goods. Certain government agencies import certain goods either for distribution to the private sector or for government corporations and agencies. In addition, there are eight open general licenses under which specified commodities may be imported from any country. There is a short list of prohibited imports, principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. If evidence of importation has been or will be presented, the authorized banks automatically provide exchange (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) to pay for permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to license. In general, payments for items connected with trade are allowed and payments for other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Remittances of income arising from investment are permitted freely on application, subject to presentation of evidence that all taxes due in Burma have been paid. Requests for foreign exchange for tourist travel by residents are subject to individual license; allocations for this purpose are, however, temporarily suspended. Residents going abroad may take out K 100 in Burmese notes and the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one fourth of the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exports and Export Proceeds Burma has a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps the reo f, foreign manufac tures, and com- modities of local origin which it is desired to conserve for local requirements. No license is required for the export of commodities not specifically included in the lists of items subject to license, but the exporter must obtain the export proceeds in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities. In general, exporters are required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds to an authorized exchange dealer. Unless specially exempted, exporters must be registered with the official Registration Board. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in K 100 in Burmese notes and, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959, and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, save foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. If approved, investments are granted certain privileges, including priority in receiving foreign exchange allocations to import necessary raw and auxiliary materials. The law also provides for transfer abroad of profits af ter taxes and for withdrawal of the imported capital at any time a f ter five years f rom the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. Proceeds f rom the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may be made at the official rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. Foreign nationals are allowed to repatriate all their personal assets when they retire, and foreign insurance companies operating in Burma are permitted to remit their surplus funds to their home offices. When payments in favor of nonresidents are not permitted to be transferred abroad, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to blocked accounts. The use of balances on blocked accounts is subject to individual permit. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Residents are not usually permitted investment. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests are subject to individual license. to remit funds abroad for Changes during 1961 January 1. Imports of seven groups of commodities (general hardware goods and building materials; mach inery; chemicals; coal-tar dyes; parts of machinery; scientific, surgical, and optical instruments and apparatus; and tools and implements) were made subject to the program for the Burmanization of commission agency business, which provided that all orders had to be placed through Burmese commission agents, except goods of U.K. origin shipped direct from the United Kingdom. January 18. The Ministry of Trade Development announced that import licenses equivalent to 7% per cent of total export proceeds would be granted to exporters of 34 commodities in the Class A list, and licenses equivalent to 10 per cent of total proceeds to exporters of 23 commodities in the Class B list. (Under the 1960 p rog ram, import licenses equivalent to 10 per cent of export proceeds had been granted to all exporters.) February 11. A bilateral payments agreement with Mainland China came into effect. All payments between the two countries must be settled through bilateral accounts maintained by the central banks. The State Commercial Bank of Burma was appointed as the sole agency in Burma to deal with payments to and from Mainland China. March 23. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired, and settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. September 5. The bilateral payments agreement with India expired. However, trade with India in certain goods would continue to be settled through the bilateral account until the clearing balance was liquidated. October 1. Imports of U.K. origin shipped from the United Kingdom were no longer exempted from the program for the Burmanization of commission agency business (see January 1, above). October 1. Open General License No. 3 was amended to permit books, newspapers, and periodicals to be imported freely from all countries, including the United States (which had previously been excluded). November 21. Open General License No. 8 was introduced, permitting 27 industrial raw materials to be imported freely f rom any country. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value of the Canadian Dollar is Can$l.08108 = US$1.1 Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from non- residents. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. The only import licenses required are those for a few agricultural items. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, a few commodities are under export control to all destinations. For security reasons, a list of restricted commodities is under export control to all destinations except the United States. All exports to the U.S.S.R. and some other destinations are subject to control, but certain nonstrategic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements imposed on exchange receipts f rom, or exchange payments for, invisibles. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts or payments by either residents or nonresidents. 1 This par value was established with the In terna t ional Monetary Fund on May 2, 1962. Previously, the exchange value of the Canadian dollar was allowed to fluctuate, but the market was subject to official intervention. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Changes during 1961 June 20. A f ter having previously limited intervention in the exchange market to the prevention of sudden and disorderly movements of the rate, the Government announced that the official Exchange Fund would be prepared, as and when necessary, to add substantial amounts to its holdings of U.S. dollars through purchases in the exchange market. It was also stated that, once an exchange rate more closely in line with Canada's economic position was achieved, the resources of the Exchange Fund would be used to ensure that the rate was kept within a range appropriate to Canada's changing economic situation. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is Ceylon Rupees 4.76190 — US$1. The exchange rate system is uniform, the rate for the U.S. dollar being based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate and the sterling-U.S. dollar rate in London, maintained between official limits. The market rate as at December 31, 1961 was Cey Rs 4.7375 buying, and Cey Rs 4.7625 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government of Ceylon. All transactions in foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through authorized dealers, which are banks authorized to transact business in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is hand led by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations prescribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Imports from the Sterling Area may be paid for in any Sterling Area currency. Imports from other countries may be paid for by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the country of export. Receipts f rom exports to the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Receipts from exports to other countries may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency,1 or in any non- specified, non-Sterling Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Settlements with countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements2 must 1The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees (notes and coins only), Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China (M a i n l a n d ), Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON be made through the relevant clearing accounts. Transactions involv- ing deviation from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing nonresident accounts differentiate between the accounts of banks and of persons and firms abroad. Although there are no specific provisions to enable the individual nonresident to obtain conversion into his own currency of amounts credited to his account, transfers for banks and correspondents f rom rupee accounts in Ceylon to corresponding Sterling Area Accounts, or to corresponding sterling External Accounts, are allowed. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of a few items, such as firearms for use by the armed forces, imports of goods are subject to regulation. However, many commodities are governed by open general licenses and may be imported freely without individual license. Open General License No. 1 permits the free import of a large number of goods f rom all countries except those in the dollar area8 and the "Ceylonized" area.4 Open General License No. 2 permits the f ree import of certain essential items from the dollar area. Open General License No. 4 covers those goods which may be imported freely from the countries covered by Open General License No. 1, with the exception of certain European countries.5 Most of the goods covered by open general licenses may be imported freely f rom the countries to which these licenses do not apply, including the "Ceylonized" area, under general import licenses, which are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Some foods and textiles may, under general import licenses issued specifically for these commodities, be imported by registered Ceylonese traders f rom all countries and by other traders f rom countries outside the dollar area and the "Ceylonized" area (and, in the case of textiles, certain European countries). Most other goods may be imported under indi- vidual licenses. Policy concerning the issue of these licenses is an- 8 Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philip- pines, United States and dependent territories, and Venezuela. 4Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, China (Mainland), China (Taiwan), Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Japan, Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, UJ3.S.R., Viet-Nam, andi Yugoslavia. 5 Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON nounced f rom time to time. For a number of commodities, including those which are being produced locally, no licenses are issued. Some essential items, such as sugar, flour, and rice, are imported only on government account. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evidence of importation and cost of goods, together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. When the goods are under open general license, the applicant must have made a declaration to that effect on the application. The import of certain less essential goods (air conditioning equip- ment, alcoholic beverages, motorcars, etc.) must be made on a letter of credit basis, and banks are required to obtain a 50 per cent cash deposit from the importer at the time the letter of credit is established. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange license. The authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange to pay for most invisibles in accordance with a detailed set of regulations. Payments for freight and other services in connection with the international transport of goods are allowed. Payments for international travel fares are permitted, provided that certain conditions are met. Exchange for business travel is allowed up to a maximum of £ stg. 7/10/- a day for a maximum period of 30 days, subject to certain restrictions on the purpose of such travel. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to individual approval by the Controller of Exchange and is limited to a max imum of Cey Rs 750 for travel to the "Indian group" of countries,6 £ stg. 75 for travel to certain other countries,7 and £ stg. 150 for travel to all other countries. Exchange for tourist travel is granted only to persons who have not benefited from an allocation for this purpose for the past five years. Other remittances of a per- sonal nature are granted for reasonable requirements for education or medical purposes. Business remittances to any country normally are approved, particularly when they are of a recurring or contractual nature, e.g., insurance premiums on policies denominated in foreign currency. Family maintenance remittances by Indian and Pakistani 6 Afghanistan, Burma, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Malaya, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia. 7 Brunei, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Israel, Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, North Borneo, Sarawak, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Republic, and Viet-Nam. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON nationals are permitted up to a monthly maximum of Rs 750 or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less; other foreign nationals are permitted to remit on a per capita monthly basis £ stg. 85 for a wife and £ stg. 55 for a child. Emigrants (Ceylonese nationals) are not allowed capital remittances, but are permitted to transfer up to £ stg. 150 a person to meet incidental expenses, if the tourist exchange allowance is available to them in terms of the rules for tourist travel, plus from time to time any accrued income on their investments. Remittances of profits and dividends by nonresidents are permitted freely. Travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry. Residents may take out currency notes equivalent to not more than Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children) once in 12 months. Exports and Export Proceeds For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all but a few commodities. Licenses for exports to Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, China (Ma in land ), China (Ta iwan ), Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Exports of certain manu fac tu red goods and re-exports of foreign manufac tured articles are allowed only under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the license for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing f a ir value for the goods will be received in Ceylon, usually within six months from the date of shipment, in an approved manner. The currencies and methods in which payments for exports must be received are stipulated in the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), and the foreign exchange must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be received in accordance with the prescription of currency requirements applicable to export proceeds. Travelers are not restricted in the amounts of foreign funds they may carry into Ceylon in the fo rm of travel credit instruments, but they are obliged upon entering to declare their holdings, including currency notes and coins. The import of sterling notes is restricted to £50, and the import of Ind ian, Pakistan, and Ceylon currency notes 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON is restricted to a maximum of Rs 75 in the aggregate, of which Pakistan notes should not exceed Rs 20. No restriction on the import of other currency notes and coins is in force. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government or in shares of public companies incorporated in Ceylon. Investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation, upon liquidation. Investments in rupee companies (companies whose capital structure is in rupees) may be repatriated to Sterling Area countries upon liquidation, up to a max imum of Cey Rs 50,000 per annum. Transfers by nonresidents arising f rom the sale of shares and other holdings in Ceylon are generally limited to Cey Rs 25,000. The proceeds of the sale of immovable property in Ceylon owned by nonresidents must be credited to blocked accounts, and may be reinvested in Ceylon securities and the resulting income remitted abroad. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Indian and Pakistani repatriates are permitted to t ran s fer their entire proved net assets at the time of departure. Other foreign nationals are permitted to transfer a maximum of Cey Rs 250,000, plus the employer's contribution to a provident fund or pension fund, at the time of departure, with transfers thereafter restricted to Cey Rs 50,000 a year. Changes during 1961 January 7. A bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic came into force, providing for settlements in sterling through centralized accounts. January 12. Foreign exchange for tourist travel would be allowed only to persons who had not traveled abroad in the preceding five-year period. January 25. Some 45 items, mainly consumer goods, were transferred from open general license to individual import license. Eleven cate- gories of textiles were transferred from general import license to individual import license. Imports of diamonds, soap, jaggery, and bicycle tires and tubes were prohibited. January 25. The sale of currency notes and coins to resident travelers leaving Ceylon was limited to the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 for each period of 12 months, instead of 6 months as previously. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON February 22. Coffee extracts, chocolate preparations, f ru it juices, motor buses, vans, and trucks were made subject to individual import license. February 27. Cotton cambaye (handloom) was permitted to be imported under general import (textiles) license, provided that the c.i.f. value a yard did not exceed Cey Rs 2. Crown corks were made subject to individual import license. March 16. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance by foreign nationals (other than of India and Pakistan) were raised to £ stg. 85 for a w i fe and £ stg. 55 for a child on a per capita monthly basis. (Previously, the maximum was £40 a month for a w i fe and £38 a month for a child, with an over-all maximum limit of £150 a month for a family.) March 29. Export proceeds could be obtained, with the prior approval of the exchange control, in any non-specified, non-Sterling Area cur- rency, if such currency was marketable in the United Kingdom. May 15. A bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria came into operation. June 5. Eggs were made subject to individual import license. Registered Ceylonese traders were, however, permitted to import eggs from any source under general import license. June 6. Imports of currants and raisins were placed under Open General License No. 1, and sultanas under ind iv idual import license. July 5. Bed sheets and pillow cases (of any material) were made subject to individual import license. July 10. Licenses were to be issued at the discretion of the Controller of Imports for imports of unexposed cinematographic film and photo- graphic paper, plates, and film. No licenses were, however, to be issued at present for cinematographic apparatus and appliances or photo- graphic instruments, apparatus, and appliances; but parts for these could be imported under Open General Licenses Nos. 1 and 2 and under general import license. July 28. Import quotas were announced for 31 items. These included many of the items which had been made subject to individual import license on January 25. August 12. Raisins were made subject to individual import license. September 12. A bilateral payments agreement with Hungary came into operation. September 13. Betel leaves were made subject to individual import license. Imports of beedies and of p la in envelopes were placed under Open General License No. 1. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON September 15. Fish, dried or salted, were made subject to individual import license. Licenses for fish would be issued only to the Coopera- tive Wholesale Establishment. September 22. The following items were made subject to individual import license: platinum and manufac tures t h e r e o f; electric ha ir clippers, hair driers, vacuum cleaners, shavers, massagers, food mixers, floor polishers, and bells; washing mach ines; tape recording machines; and roofing tiles. November 9. Parts of watches were made subject to individual import license. Licenses for imports of watch straps, bands, and bracelets costing no more than Cey Rs 7.50 each would be issued to registered Ceylonese traders. The restriction on imports of fountain pen parts was relaxed. November 14. Caustic soda was made subject to individual import license. Sulphur produced in any territory other than the "Ceylonized" area or the dollar area was made subject to individual import license. The restriction on imports of ammonium sulphate was relaxed. December 1. Foreign repatriates were permitted to transfer employ- ers' contributions to provident or pension funds in addition to the permitted maximum of Cey Rs 250,000. December 23. Imports f rom Korea and Viet-Nam were "Ceylonized." December 29. Imports of French polish were made subject to indi- vidual import license. December 80. Shoe laces were made subject to individual import license. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE * Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso agreed with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking free ma rke t ), where only commercial banks are allowed to operate and the rate is determined by the Central Bank of Chile, and the brokers' market, where commercial banks and authorized exchange dealers are allowed to operate and the rate fluctuates freely. The official rate of E° 1.051 buying, and E° 1.053 selling, per US$1, applies to government transactions, to receipts from all exports and a few invisibles, and to payments for imports on the permitted list and some commercial invisibles. Transactions not permitted at the official rate can be settled in the brokers' market, but in some cases Central Bank approval must first be obtained. The rate in the brokers' market in February 1962 was around E° 1.40 per US$1. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank of Chile is in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Department have been delegated to local commissions in impor- tant cities. Only the commercial banks are authorized to operate in the banking free market. The commercial banks and various exchange dealers, tourist agencies, and hotels are authorized as dealers in the brokers' market. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports of copper by the large companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Department. Large iron ore mining enterprises must pay their income taxes in U.S. dollars. All other transactions, including exports of iron ore by small and medium-sized companies, may be settled in any currency, irrespective of the country of origin or destination of the payment. There is a bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia requiring settlements through an account in clearing dollars. 1 In view of the changes that became effective on January 15, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as either permitted or prohibited. Imports on the permitted list are not subject to license, but government depart- ments and agencies require permission from the Ministry of Economy, Development, and Reconstruction for imports other than for national defense purposes. Imports on the permitted list are entitled to exchange at the official rate, but this cannot be obtained until 90 days af ter the date of the bill of lading covering the goods. Imports of goods on the prohibited list, except for automobiles and most trucks, is permitted through the "free port" zones of Arica, Magallanes, and Aysen, but are subject to certain customs duties; foreign exchange to pay for such imports may be purchased in the brokers' market. Most imports are subject to surcharge, but the following items are exempt: imports by large companies concerned with mining iron, cop- per, nitrates, or iodine; imports of crude petroleum and diesel oil destined for the nitrate, subnitrate, and iodine industries; imports under loans or credits from the Export-Import Bank of Washington or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; imports under the Surplus Agricultural Commodities Agreement with the United States; imports of spare parts for agricultural machinery; imports of ju te sacks, magnetic enamels, etc.; and imports of certain capital goods. The surcharges range (in 13 categories) f rom 0.1 per cent to 200 per cent of the c.i.f. value and are paid in escudos at the official exchange rate. Although the surcharge is paid at the time of clearance of the goods through customs, an amount equal to the surcharge must be deposited with the Central Bank at the time of import registration. This deposit is returned to the importer when payment is made for the goods. Fifteen items are, in addition, subject to an advance deposit of 10,000 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles by private individuals may be made freely. Payments by incorporated and unincorporated business enterprises are subject to approval by the Central Bank. A few commercial invisi- bles are permitted to be paid at the official rate; all other transactions take place in the brokers' market. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely, but some items are prohibited or are subject to quota. In order to enforce these requirements and to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds, all exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE The proceeds of exports of copper by the large mining companies must be received in a prescribed currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). For all exports except those by the large cop- per and iron mines and the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (CO YENS A ), exporters must repatriate within 90 days f rom the date of shipment the total value of their exports and must sell the exchange within 10 days from its repatriation, through an authorized bank or exchange dealer. The large copper companies, however, sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consign- ment basis must be arranged through an authorized bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. The bank issues a certificate that payment has been made or arranged in an approved manner, to enable clearance of the export through customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange f rom commissions and proceeds of insurance claims must be sold in the official market. Exchange derived from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Capital Large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may free ly remit interest, dividends, and amortization on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Under the terms of a decree-law of March 30, 1960, capital may be brought into Chile (in the fo rm of foreign currency, credits, or plant and equipment) under special conditions, for the purpose of introduc- ing, developing, improving, or resuming productive activities related to agriculture, mining, fishing, or any other industry officially defined as being in the national interest. New plant and equipment imported for these purposes may be exempted f rom consular charges and f rom all duties and fees normally collected by the customs. The President is empowered to grant by decree a number of privileges and guarantees to the investor, covering such matters as fu ture taxation, depreciation allowances, withdrawal of capital, remittances of profits, etc. The privi- leges granted under this decree-law will normally be in force for 10 years, but in special cases this period may be extended to 20 years. Chilean firms already established, or which may be established, in a business similar to that for which such privileges have been granted 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE will en joy equal privileges for as long as such privileges are extended to foreign investors. Capital is also granted favo rab le treatment when invested (1) in export industries which can compete in the international market without government assistance; (2) in production for the domestic market of goods which at present must be imported, also without gov- ernment assistance; or (3) in industries using a proportion (at least 80 per cent) of domestic raw materials to provide goods for the domestic market at reduced cost for the consumer. The Foreign Investment Commission supervises capital imports. Changes during 1961 A number of changes in the lists of imports subject to the various categories of surcharges and advance deposits took place during the year; only the most important are mentioned below. January. Imports of used merchandise that were previously exempted f rom advance deposits were made subject to an advance deposit of 1,500 per cent, except for certain items, on which the deposits were established as follows: concrete mixers with a capacity of less than 10 cubic feet, 1,000 per cent; motor graders, mechanical shovels and shovel attachments, earth-packing rollers, ditchers, asphalt-laying equipment, caterpillar tractors, floating cranes, dredgers, and rotary presses, 100 per cen t; fishing boats and freighters, 5 per cent. January 16. Advance deposits required for imports could, addition- ally, be made in 18-month foreign currency bills issued by the Chilean Treasury under Section (b) of Article 7 of Law No. 14171 (Recon- struction L aw ), or in receipts issued by the Ca ja de Amortizacion for payments made to take up such bills. February 8. The bilateral payments agreement with Argentina was terminated; payments between the two countries could be made in convertible or other agreed currencies. March 7. The advance deposit required for imports of "automobiles for public use" (taxicabs) was reduced from 1,000 per cent to 100 per cent. March 7. The Central Bank of Chile was authorized to buy f rom and sell to commercial banks any kind of currency without any limi- tation. Therefore, the commercial banks were required, at the close of their daily operations, to liquidate at the Central Bank any surpluses in their exchange positions. March 15. Certain imports by the fishing indu s t ry were exempted f rom the advance deposit requirement. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE June 3. Surcharges were applied to certain imports, as follows: 20 per cent on artificial viscose straw; 50 per cent on heavy vacuum cleaners and waxers with motors of 1 horsepower or more and weighing 25 kilograms or more; 100 per cent on solid thermo-adhesive cements made with a synthetic resin base; and 200 per cent on vacuum cleaners and waxers with motors of less than 1 horsepower and weighing less than 25 kilograms. June SO. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was termi- nated, and trade with that country was placed on a convertible cur- rency basis. July 15. Re-exports of scrap iron, and of raw materials and imported articles or materials which have not undergone transformation within the country, were prohibited. July 18. Surcharges were applied to a list of approximately 62 items or groups of items, including (1) cigarettes, soap, construction equip- ment and machinery, railroad freight cars for transporting minerals, batteries and spare parts for automobiles, radio receiver sets, automatic scales for specific purposes with a capacity of more than 1,500 kilo- grams, hand-wound phonographs, etc., 75 per cent; (2) motor scooters and motorcycles, 200 per cent; (3) detonators for firearms, 50 per cent. August 8. The import of complete sawmills was made subject to an advance deposit of 5 per cent. August 9. The prohibition on re-exports of raw materials and imported articles or materials which have not undergone transforma- tion within the country (see July 15, above) was suspended for the remainder of the calendar year. The prohibition on re-exports of scrap iron was maintained. September 11. The advance deposit for imports of raw cotton was reduced to 5 per cent. September 16. Surcharges ranging f rom 5 to 100 per cent were applied to various types of buses, trucks, trailers, station wagons, and their chassis, in lieu of advance deposits. September 27. The advance deposit requirement for imports of butter was reduced from 100 per cent retained for 90 days to 5 per cent retained for 30 days. October 1. The bilateral payments agreements with Ecuador and Brazil were terminated; settlements with these two countries would henceforth be made in convertible currencies. November 13. Advance deposits for imports were abolished, and all items formerly subject to advance deposits would be subject to sur- charges instead. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE November 14. The bilateral payments agreement with Bolivia was terminated; trade with that country would henceforth be settled in freely convertible U.S. dollars. December 27. All exchange operations were temporarily suspended. December 27. An advance deposit of 10,000 per cent was established for all imports. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes became effective on January 15, 1962: Two exchange markets were instituted —an off ic ial market (known as the bank ing free market) with a fixed exchange rate of E° 1.051 buying, and E° 1.053 selling, per US$1, and a brokers' market with a fluctuating rate. Most transactions in invisibles were required to be carried out through the brokers7 market. A large number of commodities were classified as prohibited imports. Most of the goods on the prohibited list could be imported through certain "free port" zones, subject to the payment of certain duties; foreign exchange for these goods could be obtained through the brokers' market. The requirement of an advance deposit of 10,000 per cent on all imports, established on December 27,1961, was abolished for all except 15 items. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The official buying rate is NT$40 per US$1. An official selling rate has not been established, and all sales, as well as some purchases, of foreign exchange take place through a free exchange certificate market, in which the rate is virtually stabilized around NT$40 per US$1. The rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined by the Bank of Taiwan on the basis of the respective parities to the U.S. dollar. All exporters and other recipients of foreign exchange must surrender their exchange proceeds either for Taiwan dollars at the official rate or for exchange certificates. Exchange certificates are valid for 180 days and may be sold in the f ree market. Exchange to pay for authorized imports and other transactions may only be obtained by surrendering exchange certificates for an equivalent amount. On December 30, 1961, the dollar exchange certificate was quoted at NT$40.03 per US$1. Administration of Control The authority for exchange control policy is vested in the Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission. The decisions of the Commission are implemented by the appointed banks of the Central Bank of China, through which all sales and purchases of foreign exchange must be made. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, Malayan dollars, deutsche mark, or French francs. Payments may be made in the same currencies. The currency and method for making payments to nonresidents are not prescribed. The Bank of Taiwan stands ready to convert exchange certificates denominated in any one currency into certificates expressed in any other currency. Nonresident Accounts The exchange control system does not d ifferen t ia te between the accounts of residents and those of nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports worth more than US$25 require individual licenses. A number of goods, such as specified luxuries and goods competing with 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) locally produced commodities, are classified as controlled imports; these may be admitted on an ad hoc basis accord ing to special criteria. Licenses for all other imports included in a permissible list are auto- matically granted if the application is in order and is accompanied by an exchange certificate. Only government agencies and registered private importers classified as traders, industrial end-users, or direct end-users are entitled to obtain import licenses. Import allocations for industrial end-users are based on their production needs, and for direct end-users on their needs for specified goods. When the import license is granted, the holder is automatically entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange f rom an appointed bank of the Central Bank of China, through the surrender of an exchange certificate that has been acquired in the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. In general, reasonable amounts of foreign exchange are granted for reinsurance premiums and for travel other than for pleasure. Payments to nonresidents for family maintenance are restricted to a monthly quota. Travelers leaving Taiwan may take with them no more than US$200 in foreign currency and no more than NT$500 in Taiwan currency. However, travelers who have stayed in Taiwan less than six months may take with them any unspent portions of fore ign currency which they registered upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export declarations. Exports of controlled goods require licenses from the Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission. Exports may normally be made against receipt of letters of credit or telegraphic transfers or, with prior approval, by means of drafts on a documents-against-payment or documents-against- acceptance basis, or on consignment. Export proceeds must be sold to the Bank of Taiwan at the official rate or surrendered against exchange certificates equivalent to the value of the proceeds. These exchange certificates are valid for foreign payments for 180 days and may be sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to an appointed bank of the Central Bank of China, either for local currency at the official rate or for exchange certificates. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it. The import of domestic currency is limited to NT$500 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments due to nonresidents are not in general permitted, but the repatriation of foreign investments may be allowed. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, as revised, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) transfer of net annual profits, or accrued interest, in any foreign currency, (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, two years af ter the investment has been made, and (3) com- pensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. Capital investments abroad by residents are permissible only in the form of technical services and locally manufac tured equipment. Residents are permitted to hold foreign exchange representing capital receipts in an account in foreign currency and may dispose of this exchange by surrendering it to the Bank of Taiwan for local currency or using it to make authorized payments abroad. Changes during 1961 June 1. The official buying rate was changed f rom NT$36.08 to NT$40 per US$1. The previous official selling rate was abandoned. Exporters were given the option of selling their exchange receipts at the new official rate or obtaining exchange certificates. July 1. The Central Bank of China resumed many of its former central bank ing functions. However, the Bank of Taiwan, which had acted as agent of the Central Bank of China for the past 12 years, continued, for the time being, to carry out some central banking operations (e.g., the issue of currency). October 1. Under the terms of a new trade and payments agreement with Japan, trade between the two countries would be settled in convertible currencies, instead of through a bilateral clearing account as previously. The bilateral account would, however, be kept open until March 31, 1962, by which date all outstanding amounts were expected to be settled. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value of Colombian Pesos 1.94998 = US$1, established on December 17,1948, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There is a fixed "certificate" rate for the exchange proceeds of ma jor exports, which is established by the Bank of the Republic with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and in consulta- tion with the National Economic Policy and Planning Boa rd; this rate is Col$6.50 per US$1. The certificates acquired by the Bank of the Republic are sold freely at public auction; the average rate quoted was Col$6.70 per US$1 at the end of 1961. The "auction" rate applies to payments for all imports, government payments, students' remittances, and freight payments, as well as to payments for crude petroleum bought in Colombia for refining in Colombia ( for which the re f ine rs must pay in do l la rs ), with the exception of petroleum produced by the Colombian Petroleum Enterprises. The fixed "certificate" rate applies also to the exchange representing impor ts of cap i tal for the pe t ro leum indus try and the metal-extracting industries. There is also a free market, where all other transactions take place. On December 27, 1961, the selling rate in the f ree market was Col$8.8152 per US$1. There is a remittance tax of 10 per cent (which has to be paid with U.S. dollars f rom the free marke t) on payments of interest on, and repayments of, capital registered be fo re June 17, 1957. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To import f rom, export to, or make paymen ts to, fo re ign coun tr ies, prior application for registration of the transaction must be made at the Exchange Registration Off ice, which is responsible to the Bank of the Republic. Exchange for payments entitled to be made at the "auction" rate must be purchased at the auctions of the Bank of the Republic and may be purchased through the commercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. An Exchange Regulation Fund, operated by the Exchange Commission, regulates operations in this market. The Superintendency of Imports controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. 1 In view of certain changes which became effective on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, and Spain for commercial transactions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agreement. Under the agreement with Denmark, goods originating in third countries and purchased in one of the agree- ment countries may be settled through the agreement account by mutual consent of the partners. There are also agreements concluded by the National Federation of Coffee Growers with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Commercial banks are au tho r ized to debit and credit the accounts of nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments There are three lists of imports: goods whose import is proh ib i ted; goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by the Superintendency of Imports; and goods that may be imported freely. Prior import registration is required for all imports; if the applica- tion meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the applica- tion fo rm, i.e., registration is granted. An advance deposit of 1 per cent is required for registration of the following: imports of capital goods and spare parts not destined for resale; imports under clearing agree- ments concluded for the foreign marketing of coal and products of Acerias Paz del Rio S.A., subject to the exchange and trade regulations; foods tu f fs imported by the National Institute of Supply, with approval of the competent ministry, for Colombia's normal needs; imports exempt f r om advance deposits under laws, decrees, or resolutions in e f fect be fo re the coming into force of Law No. 1 of 1959, provided that they comply with the regulations and are authorized by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; sacramental wine imported by the dioceses in quantities considered reasonable by the Bank of the Republic; and imports of books, newspapers, and magazines of a scientific or literary nature which will contribute to the culture or entertainment of the Colombian people. Other advance deposits required as a prerequisite to import registration are as fo l lows: 5 per cent for capital goods of considerable value payable in install- ments; 20 per cent for certain essential goods; 50 per cent for certain metals and paper and some chemicals; 75 per cent for other metals; 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA and 100 per cent for all other goods.2 The advance deposit on imports of gold and silver coins is 500 per cent. As a general rule, the advance deposit is returned 90 days af ter the merchandise is cleared through customs or, if the import is received in installments, at the time of the last shipment. However, when the advance deposit is to be used to buy the exchange certificates necessary to make the payment abroad, the deposit may be returned 45 days a f ter customs clearance. The National Government has power in the event of a special emergency to allow import registrations for imports f rom countries with which Colombia has a marked trade deficit only if these countries purchase stated amounts of Colombia's exports. Prior exchange registration is required for all payments for imports; this is granted in f.o.b. terms upon submission of the import registration and evidence that the goods have entered Colombia. Importers, or commercial banks acting for them, may buy certificates covering the value of their imports at auctions held by the Bank of the Republic. Potatoes, wheat, spelt, maslin, and flours made thereof, rice, barley, corn, wheat groats, and some legumes and vegetables may be imported only by the National Institute of Supply. Payments for Invisibles Payments by the National Government for services are made at the "auction" rate. Installments of principal and interest on all official external medium-term and long-term debts registered before June 17, 1957 and owed by semiofficial or private entities, and repatriation of and service on foreign capital registered before June 17, 1957, are also made at the "auction" rate and are subject to the 10 per cent remittance tax. The Government, with the prior agreement of the National Economic Policy and Planning Board and the Bank of the Republic, may order that exchange certificates may also be purchased at auction to pay for freight and insurance costs connected with imports, when such a measure is considered desirable in view of the state of the certificate market and the free exchange market. In practice, 80 per cent of freights are paid with exchange certificates. Exchange at the "auction" rate is also granted to students abroad engaged in postgraduate studies, taking professional courses not avail- able in Colombia, or studying art; to persons sent abroad by official or semiofficial institutions to study their specialties; and to persons holding scholarships in foreign countries and needing an additional amount for living expenses. Payments for all other invisibles must 2 For the period April 5-June 30, 1962, these advance deposit requirements have been raised to 20 per cent, 50 per cent, 150 per cent, 180 per cent, and 200 per cent, respectively. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA be made through the free market. To aid in developing new coffee markets abroad, the National Coffee Fund may sell coffee for foreign currencies which are not freely convertible but which may be used for payments for imports, services, expenses of students and other residents abroad, technical missions, purchases of real estate by Colombian diplomatic or consular missions abroad and equipment of those missions, and other similar purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior application for registration is required for all exports. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. The foreign exchange proceeds of exports of coffee, bananas, raw cowhides, and precious metals must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic for pesos at the fixed "certificate" rate. The proceeds of most other exports are negotiated at the average buying rate in the free market for the preceding week. Exchange proceeds of manufactured goods consisting of imported raw materials are negotiated at the fixed "certificate" rate when the import component exceeds 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value; in other cases, the average buying rate in the free market for the preceding week is applied. Minimum surrender prices are established for the proceeds from exports of coffee (US$66.50 per 70-kilogram bag) and bananas (US$0.30 per stem for exports to the United States and US$17 per ton for exports to Europe). The current surrender price for coffee is higher than the f.o.b. export price; consequently, exporters of coffee have to purchase foreign exchange to fulfill the surrender requirement. This exchange can be purchased in the free market or from the Bank of the Republic at the average of the free market rate for the previous week. Further, coffee exporters are required to retain in kind the equivalent of approximately 15 per cent of the volume of coffee exported. On the other hand, the current surrender price for bananas is substantially lower than the f.o.b. export price, so that exporters of bananas are free to sell the greater part of their fore ign exchange receipts in the free market or to retain it abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be negotiated in the free market. Capital Capital imported for the petroleum and metal-extracting industries must be registered with the Exchange Registration Office, and all such 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA capital imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the rate fixed by the Board of Directors of the Bank for major exports (Col$6.50 per US$1). Foreign capital invested in these industries and net profits on such capital are remitted accord- ing to special laws and contracts. For other industries, there is at present a dual system: Those registered before June 17, 1957 may pay amortization and profits on capital with "auction" exchange, covering the rem i t tance tax of 10 per cent with U.S. dollars purchased in the free market. Capital imported af ter June 17, 1957 does not have to be registered with the Exchange Registration Office and may enter freely through the free marke t; amortization and profits on such capital must also be negoti- ated through the free market. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at Janua ry 1, 1962) (pesos per UJS. dollar) COLOMBIA Buying 6.345 (Mixed Rate)* Exports of coffee. 6.50 (Fixed "Certificate" Rate) Exports of raw cowhides and precious metals. Exports of manufactured goods with an import component in excess of 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Capital for the petroleum and metal-extracting industries. 8.12 (Mixed Rate)5 Exports of bananas. 8.78 (Average of Free Market Rates for the Preceding Week) All other exports, including manu- fac tured goods with an import com- ponent not exceeding 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value. 8.815 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Invisibles. Other capital. Selling 6.70 ("Auction" Rate) All imports. Government payments. Students* remittances. Freight pay- ments. 7.58 ("Auction" Rate plus 10% Re- mittance Tax)* Interest on and principal of debts, and repatriation of and service on capital, registered before June 17, 1957. 8.815 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Unregistered capital. Changes during 1961 January L By a decree of December 22, 1960, the exchange tax on exports of coffee, bananas, raw cowhides, and precious metals was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 9 per cent. Also, the amount of coffee that exporters are required to retain was increased f rom 9 per cent to 15 per cent of the volume exported. January 14- The advance deposit required on imports of certain paper produc ts and cartons was reduced f rom 130 per cent to 65 per cent. 8 In the calculation of this rate, account has been taken of the fact that exchange must be purchased in the free market to cover the difference between the f.o.b. export price and the minimum surrender price. The retention in kind is disregarded in the calculation. 4 The tax is calculated at the free market rate. 5 In the calculation of this rate, account has been taken of the fact that the foreign exchange remaining after meeting the surrender requirement may be sold in the free market. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA February 1. The advance deposit required on imports of tractors was reduced from 130 per cent to 20 per cent. February 25. The Bank of the Republic instituted a policy of selling official exchange to coffee exporters, at a rate of Col$7.48 per US$1, in order to assist them in fulfilling their surrender requirements. March L The advance deposit required on imports of certain types of automobiles was reduced f rom 130 per cent to 20 per cent. March 1. The following goods were added to the list of items for which a prior import license was required: throwers for certain spinning and weaving machines, tin solder, rakes, certain iron or steel con- tainers, and caramelized sugars. March 7. Proceeds of manufactured exports with an imported raw material component not exceeding 50 per cent (previously 40 per cent) of the f.o.b. value became entitled to receive, f rom the Bank of the Republic, the average of the free market buying rate of the previous week. Also, the export fee payable by exporters voluntarily registering with the Ministry of Development was reduced from 2 per cent to % of 1 per cent. April 19. The advance deposit required on imports of certain plastic materials was reduced f rom 130 per cent to 65 per cent. May 15. The bilateral agreement of the National Federation of Coffee Growers with Israel expired and was not renewed. May 24. The advance deposit required on imports of certain types of iron and steel wire was reduced from 130 per cent to 65 per cent. May 24. Dressed furs and certain live animals were transferred from the list of prohibited imports to the prior license list. Formaldehyde and trioxymethylene were transferred from the free import list to the prior license list. May 29. Advance import deposits of 130 per cent were reduced to 100 per cent; those of 100 per cent were reduced to 75 per cent; and those of 65 per cent were reduced to 50 per cent. June 1. The minimum surrender price for the proceeds of exports of bananas was reduced from US$27 per ton to US$17 per ton for exports to Europe, and from US$0.50 per stem to US$0.30 per stem for exports to the United States. June 8. Gasoline and pick-up trucks imported by the petroleum companies were transferred f rom the free import list to the prior license list. June 21. Advance deposits required on imports of various types of machinery and parts, components and parts for automobile motors, 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA sea-going tugboats, and boats and airplanes for certain special uses were reduced to 5 per cent; those on a miscellaneous group of products, inc lud ing hops, certain asbestos, tinplate, wire, and certain types of machinery, were reduced to 20 per cent; and those on artificial corundum, silicon carbide, and certain iron and steel products were reduced to 50 per cent. August 2. Unhardened rubber manu fac tu res and unmoun ted precious and semiprecious stones were transferred f rom the list of prohibited imports to the prior license list. The fo l low ing items were transferred from the free import list to the prior license list: mercury; spades, shovels, picks, hoes, forks, and rakes; ha i rp ins; certain types of lead goods; insecticides and d is infec tan ts; wire cloth and f a b r i c; and iron or steel wire. September 9. Sewing mach ines were t rans fe r red f rom the list of prohibited imports to the prior license list. The fo l low ing products were transferred f rom the f ree import list to the prior license list: kerosene and diesel f u e l; iron and steel sheets; cer ta in ag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry; certain electrical equ ipmen t; and unwrought platinum. October 28. The surrender price for coffee was reduced from US$69.50 to US$66.50 per 70-kilogram bag. Also, the Bank of the Republic changed the rate at which it was w i l l ing to sell foreign exchange to coffee exporters to f u l f i ll their surrender requirements, from Col$7.48 per US$1 to the average of the free market rate for the previous week. The amount of coffee that exporters are required to retain was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 4 per cent of the volume exported. NOTE.—On Janua ry 1, 1962, the exchange tax on the proceeds of ex- ports of coffee, bananas, raw cowhides, and precious metals was abol- ished by Law No. 146 ( imp lemen ted by Decree 3235) of December 21, 1961. Also, the amount of co f fee that exporters are required to retain was restored to 15 per cent of the volume exported (see October 28, 1961, above). 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived f rom exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of $ 6.62 per US$1. Costa Rica has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, and exchange may be purchased freely by the public in a market in which the Central Bank maintains the rate at $ 6.65 per US$1.1 With the exception of export proceeds, which have to be surrendered, exchange receipts may be disposed of freely. However, foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the State are exempt f rom the requirement to surrender export proceeds. An exchange tax of 10 per cent is payable by all foreign- owned banana companies on their sales of exchange to meet local expenses and taxes, resulting in an effective rate of $ 5.958 per US$1 for these transactions. Administration of Control The controls in respect of export receipts are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commerc ial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Costa Rica does not maintain any payments or clearing agreements with other countries. Imports and Import Payments There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not controlled and exchange may be purchased freely. 1 Until February 28, 1962, exchange for specified expenses of students taking specialized courses abroad and registered with the Central Bank, as well as exchange for payment by the Costa Rican Institute of Electricity of the outstanding balances with the Bank of America and with the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York, could be obtained at a preferential rate of $ 5.67 per US$1. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. Exports of goods in short supply domestically may be restricted. There is a list of strategic materials whose export to communist-dominated coun- tries is prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered. However, foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the State are exempt from this requirement. They are required to sell exchange only to meet their local expenses and taxes, and on these sales, as well as on sales for this purpose by other foreign-owned banana companies, an exchange tax of 10 per cent is payable. There is a tax of 7% per cent on the f.o.b. value of each qu in tal of sugar exported, and a tax of 10 per cent on exports of coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f r om invisibles may be retained or sold freely. Capital Transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and non- residents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign investments may be registered with the Central Bank and repatriation of the capital and income the re f rom assured. Changes during 1961 August 2. A Preferen t ial Trade Agreement was signed by Costa Rica, N icaragua, and Panama, prov id ing, among other things, for f r ee or preferential treatment of trade among the contracting parties, and for exemption of such trade from quan t i ta t ive restrictions other th an those agreed upon. September 8. The exchange system was reformed and the par value for the colon changed f rom $ 5.615 to 0 6.625 per US$1. Exchange transactions would take place at rates based on the new par value, except for a tax of 10 per cent on sales of exchange by foreign-owned banana companies and for the fo l low ing transitional arrangemen ts: (1) For a period of four months, imports of specified essential goods— provided that they had been shipped before, or had entered the customs before, June 20, 1961, and subject to certain other conditions —could be paid for at the old rate of $ 5.67 per US$1. (2) Until February 28, 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 1962, exchange for the specified expenses of registered students would be provided at a rate of $ 5.67 per US$1. (3) Exports of coffee f rom the 1960-61 crop would continue to receive a rate of $ 5.60 per US$1 and would be subject to a 5 per cent export tax; the rate applicable to coffee from subsequent crops would be $ 6.62 and the export tax 10 per cent (to be reduced if the average sale price of exported coffee falls below US$42.50 per qu in ta l ). (4) Import surcharges of 15 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively, were established on imports of specified less essential and luxury goods, pending the promulgation of a new ta r i f f. (5) A new tax of 7% per cent was imposed on the f.o.b. value of each quintal of sugar exported. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Exchange Rate System The par value is Cuban Peso 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are 1.00 peso buying (and selling for certain capital transfers), and 1.02 pesos selling (including a 2 per cent tax on the export of funds, securities, e tc .), per US$1. All foreign trade and exchange transactions are centralized in special institutions established by the State. On December 18, 1953, Cuba notified the Fund that it assumed fu l ly the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The National Bank of Cuba is the exchange control authority, and all foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through it. The Ministry of Foreign Trade controls all import and export trans- actions, which are carried out by special foreign trade enterprises established by the Ministry. Prescription of Currency All remittances abroad must be made through the National Bank. Settlements with Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. are made mainly through bilateral agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars or (under the agreement with Morocco) in sterling. Set- tlements with Spain are made through clearing accounts denominated in Cuban pesos. Nonresident Accounts Local currency held in the names of nonresidents at credit insti- tutions or other agencies in Cuba may be used by these persons only with the express au thor iza t ion of the National Bank. Withdrawals f rom nonresident accounts are sub ject to a 2 per cent exchange tax if the funds are sent or used abroad or made payable in foreign currency. There are special clearing accounts for transactions with those coun- tries with which Cuba has bilateral payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Imports and Import Payments Imports may be carried out only by the twelve state trading organi- zations, which specialize in various products. There is an exchange tax of 2 per cent on exchange payments and transfers on account of imports. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Payments for Invisibles Insurance of imports for account of Cuban residents must be obtained in Cuba. A 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on all payments on account of invisibles. All exports of and payments and transfers abroad of foreign exchange, checks, securities, or other foreign means of payment require authorization of the National Bank. The granting of exchange for personal remittances and capital transfers is considered on the basis of their essentiality, the need for them, and their urgency. Remittances abroad of income earned by foreign specialists whose services were contracted in Cuba are permitted only within the limits determined by the National Bank of Cuba. Foreigners temporarily in Cuba may take with them on departure foreign currency up to the amounts they imported and registered with the customs office, a f ter deduction of the amounts expended du r ing their stay in Cuba. The export of Cuban pesos requires approval. Cubans or other residents traveling abroad temporarily may be allowed to take with them small sums of national currency to finance necessary expenditures upon their return to Cuba. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports may be carried out only by the twelve state trad ing organi- zations, which specialize in various products. Exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange earnings f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank. The import of Cuban pesos requires the approval of the National Bank. Capital Incoming capital in foreign exchange must be surrendered to the National Bank. Outgoing capital movements require the approval of the National Bank. Changes during 1961 February 23. Law No. 930 outlined the new powers of the National Bank of Cuba as the central bank of the nationalized state banking system. Among other things, the National Bank was given the exclusive responsibility of administering international means of exchange, and all settlements with other countries had to be carried out exclusively through it. Previously, the Cuban Monetary Stabilization Fund had been the exchange control authority. Other provisions of Law No. 930 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA were as fo l lows: (1) Foreign currency obtained for any reason by any na tural or ju r id ical person must be exchanged at the National Bank for na t ional currency within ten days fo l low ing acquisition. (2) Transfers in foreign currency from abroad in favor of private indi- viduals, state or private enterprises, etc., must be made through the National Bank and paid to the beneficiaries in local currency at the official exchange rate. (3) Prior authorization of the National Bank must be obtained for all exports and transfers to foreign countries of foreign exchange, checks, securities, and other kinds of foreign monetary instruments. (4) Foreigners passing through Cuba could export foreign currency only up to the amounts they had previously imported and registered with the customs office, af ter deduction of the amount expended during their stay in Cuba. (5) Remittances abroad of income earned by foreign specialists whose services were contracted in Cuba were permitted only up to the maximum amounts determined by the National Bank. (6) Exports and imports of national currency, securi- ties, and other documen ts issued in national currency were prohibited without prior au thor iza t ion of the National Bank. February 24- Law No. 934 created a new Ministry of Foreign Trade, to which were t ran s fe r red the functions of the Bank for Cuba's Foreign Trade (Banco para el Comercio Exterior de Cuba). Previously, the latter agency held the monopoly of foreign trade. The new Ministry was charged with the planning and direct control of all import and export transactions and all commercial relations with foreign countries and with establishing special foreign trade enterprises to carry out the actual operations of importing and exporting. The Ministry was also to establish duties on all imported goods, to br ing prices into l ine with those on the internal market. March 1. The first three resolutions of the new Ministry of Foreign Trade (see February 24, above) created three new institutions, with a monopoly in the various spheres of foreign trade: the Cuban Export Enterprise (Empresa Cubana de Exportaciones), the Cuban Import Enterprise (Empresa Cubana de Importaciones), and the Cuban Enter- prise for Traffic and Freight (Empresa Cubana de Trdfico y Flete). The enterprises would operate independently of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and the State would not be responsible for obligations con- tracted by them. March 7. By Resolution No. 59, issued by the President of the National Bank, all travel agencies and other transport undertakings in Cuba had to deposit with the National Bank, at the latest on the first working day following the day of receipt, for exchange into local currency, all money orders and other remittances expressed in con- vertible currency received in payment for travel tickets. Tickets could 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA only be issued within seven days fo l low ing the deposit with the National Bank. Similarly, persons receiving remittances in convertible currency f rom abroad for the purchase of travel tickets had to sur- render such monies within ten days to the National Bank, in exchange for local currency and a personal and nontransferable certificate. Against surrender of this certificate and payment of the price of the travel ticket in pesos within seven working days following the date of the sale of exchange, the travel agency would issue the travel ticket to the person named in the certificate. The certificate became null and void if the ticket was not purchased within the seven-day period. May 1. A decree by the President of the National Bank prohibited the holding of foreign currencies by both Cuban nationals and foreign- ers in Cuba; a second decree ordered the declaration to the authorities of foreign gold coins used as jewe lry. August 6 and 7. A monetary r e fo rm was carried out providing, among other things, for the replacement of existing Cuban banknotes by new notes, to stop the illegal importation of the former. Each fam i ly was permitted to exchange up to 200 old pesos for new pesos on a one-to-one basis. Larger holdings had to be deposited in special accounts at the National Bank, f rom which up to 1,000 pesos could be w i thd rawn the following week and the balance at the rate of 100 pesos a month. Amounts in excess of 10,000 pesos were confiscated by the Government. December 81. With effect f rom this date, the two state t rad ing organizations dealing with imports and exports were replaced by twelve new state trading organizations specializing in various products. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Cyprus Pound has been established with the Fund. It is officially at par with the pound sterling, giving the relationship £C 1 = US$2.80. The commercial banks7 exchange rates for sterling are based on the parity relationship; rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. Administration of Control Although the competent authority under the Exchange Control Law is the Minister of Finance, the administration of exchange and trade controls is carried out by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Matters relating to foreign investments are also dealt with by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry have been delegated to authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or they may be made in any other currency. The proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling from an External Account or in any specified currency.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Cyprus pounds held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks (except Blocked Accounts) are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency by nonresidents. External Accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. 1 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS In addition to External Accounts, there are Blocked Accounts. Their purpose is to receive fund s, e.g., capital proceeds, which are not placed at the f ree disposal of nonresidents but which may be used for authorized purposes, including investments in approved securities. Imports and Import Payments A wide range of commodities may be imported freely under open general licenses. These include an extensive list of imports f rom the Sterling Area countries, the OECD countries (except the United States and C an ad a ), and certain Middle Eastern countries, and a less extensive list of imports from the dollar area. All other imports are subject to individual license. Foreign exchange is granted automati- cally for all authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval of the exchange control authorities. An allowance of up to £ stg. 250 a person in foreign exchange in one year may be granted by authorized banks to residents of Cyprus for tourist travel outside the Sterling Area. Reasonable amounts are granted for business, health, and study travel abroad, and provision is made for maintenance payments abroad. Travelers may not take out Cyprus or Bank of England notes in excess of £10. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to destinations outside the Sterling Area require export licenses, wh ich are issued f ree ly provided the transaction is being cleared through an au thor ized bank through which the net export proceeds will be received and non-sterling exchange surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in unlimited amounts of fore ign currency, but not more than £10 in Cyprus or Bank of England notes. Capital Foreign investments in Cyprus requ i re prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering such applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability wh ich might arise f rom the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign participation in domestic industries is normally approved up to 49 per cent of the share capital; participation above this limit may be approved in exceptional circumstances. Profits, dividends, interest, and capital in respect of approved investments may be repatriated after payment of any charges and taxes due. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission f rom the authorities. No control is exercised over capital receipts in Sterling Area curren- cies, but other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Changes during 1961 April 14 and September 27. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced that several items which fo rme r ly could not be imported freely from the dollar area would now be licensed for import. These included, among others, m in ing, construction, and other industrial machinery, tractors and agricultural machines and implements, metal- working machinery, photographic and cinematographic apparatus, office machines, optical, surgical, medical, and dental instruments, chemical products, insecticides, meat and meat preparations (except pou l t ry ), evaporated milk and cream, rice whisky, petroleum products, and cosmetics. December 21. Cyprus became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exchange Rate System The par value is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 6.8575 buying, and DKr 6.9575 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene, and the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for the Canadian dollar and specified European currencies1 are quoted daily. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage with one another and with their foreign correspondents in convertible and externally convertible currencies, including Danish kroner, both spot and forward for up to 12 months. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange control authority. However, administra- tive powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency For exchange control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral account countries2 and the convertible area (all other countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Bumania, and, for merchandise payments only, Colombia. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Payments to countries in the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting Danish kroner to any Convertible or Bilateral Krone Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Payments from countries in the convertible area may be received in any currency of the area or in Danish kroner, except f rom a Bilateral Krone Account. Payments to the bilateral account countries must be made in accord- ance with the payments agreement between Denmark and the country concerned, usually in Danish kroner through a Bilateral Krone Account. Payments f rom bilateral account countries may be received in accordance with the relevant payments agreement or in convertible currency, including Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Most accounts held in Danish kroner for nonresidents are conver- tible. Bilateral Krone Accounts are maintained for a few countries (see footnote 2). Both Convertible Krone Accounts and Bilateral Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that balances exceeding DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad au toma t ica l ly at the end of each quarter. This limitation is not, however, applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Convertible Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Convertible Krone Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of curencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts or to Bilateral Krone Accounts, for purchases of any foreign currency, and for author- ized payments to residents of Denmark f rom any foreign country. Bilateral Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom any Convertible Krone Account, with t rans fe rs f rom another Bilateral Krone Account of the same country and with the proceeds f rom sales of the currency of that country or of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to any foreign country. They may be debited for transfers to other Bilateral Krone Accounts of the same country and for purchases of the currency of that country, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark f rom the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries. They have the character of 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK restricted accounts and are operated according to detailed regulations. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, capital income, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants within the first three years after emigration and which are not transferable abroad because they amount to more than the yearly allocation granted for the transfer of such funds. Balances on Capital Accounts may be used for the same private payments in Denmark as those generally allowed f rom Con- vertible and Bilateral Krone Accounts, but may be used only within certain limits for commercial payments in excess of DKr 2,000. Within the limits set for transfers of emigrants' fund s, i.e., up to DKr 40,000 a person in each of the three years a f ter emigration, balances may be transferred abroad, used for commercial payments in Denmark, or transferred to other Capital or Foreign Accounts. A f ter three years, emigrants may transfer remaining balances on Capital Accounts with- out limitation. Transfers f rom a Capital Account belonging to a resident of a bilateral account country to other nonresident krone accounts may be made only to an account belonging to a resident of the same country. Exceptions to these rules can be au thor ized by the National Bank. Foreign Accounts, which are kept for nonresidents by savings banks, cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Off ice, may be credited with payments for imports and other current commercial payments (freight, commissions, etc.), when the account holder is or has been a Danish national; with donations, etc., but if the amount exceeds DKr 2,000, only f rom the account holder's f am i ly; with funds derived from the liquidation of nonresidents' investments made in conform- ity with the regulations; and with the proceeds of loans extended by residents to nonresidents in accordance with the regulations. All other payments accruing to the account holder may be credited freely. Foreign Accounts may be debited freely for current payments in Den- mark by the account holder (except that, if the account holder is or has been a Danish national, commercial payments may not exceed DKr 2,000). They may also be debited for the following capital pay- ments in Denmark: on account of direct investments, subject to the regulations; for purchases of or subscriptions to Danish securities quoted daily and payable only in kroner, if the investor is or has been a Danish national or the funds have been obtained f rom the liquidation of investments in Denmark or are being used to take up subscription rights to shares owned by the subscriber; and for loans to the account holder's fam i ly up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year. Balances on Foreign Accounts owned by nonresidents other than newly 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK emigrated Danish nationals may be transferred abroad without limita- tion. The rules for transfers between Foreign Accounts are the same as those for Capital Accounts (see above). Imports and Import Payments All goods not on a restricted list may be imported w i thout license f rom the "Free List Area," which comprises most countries outside the Soviet bloc. Most goods on the restricted list require either regional licenses, i.e., import licenses which may be used for imports f rom any country within the "Free List Area," or individual country licenses issued in accordance with the terms of Denmark's b i la teral trade agreements. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made free ly w i th in two years f rom the end of the month in wh ich the goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, a i rc ra f t, large machines, and ma jor plants. The authorized dealer may effect payment be fo re clearance of the goods, provided that the probab le date of c learance lies w i th in a year f rom the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles The authorized exchange dealers are permitted to make payments for most invisibles f r e e ly; only in a few cases is approval f rom the Na t ional Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any current invisible are permitted freely. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained in convertible or externally convertible currencies for travel to any country, including the bilateral account countries. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased f rom agencies or individuals other than au thor ized dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of pay- ment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents, who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived f rom sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of m a jor agr icu l tural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agr icu l ture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Exports of a few industrial products to OECD countries, their associated territories, F in land, and all countries in Central and 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK South America except Brazil and Colombia, and most exports of such goods to other countries, require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Certain exports are subject to restrictive licensing to safeguard the fu lf i l lment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, to serve strategic purposes, to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of convertible or exter- nally convertible currencies, and to ensure the domestic supply of essential goods. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within eight days af ter receipt, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within eight days af ter receipt, with exceptions similar to those which apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring into Denmark any amount in domestic bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repurchase the transferor's own bonds, to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 to subsidiary companies, etc., or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securi- ties that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or the resident furnishes proof that he has repa- triated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 a year for each person during the first three years after emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad after three years. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made with- out any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission, which is granted liberally. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of investments in Denmark. They may purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquida- tion of Danish shares or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, further, grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to commercial and industrial enterprises connected with the lender as subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to members of their families. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of all sorts of investments and other funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irre- spective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who were nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely. Inheritances may be transferred freely to any country without limitation. Individual payments as gifts to persons who are not rela- tives of the donor may not exceed DKr 2,000. Imports and exports of securities require permission f rom the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securi- ties owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securi- ties held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold to residents only with the National Bank's permission. Changes during 1961 January 1. Certain commodities, including live swine, certain fruits, rubber soles and heels, and some electrical equipment, were taken off the restricted import list. June 20. A new Executive Order modifying and liberalizing the existing exchange controls was introduced: Access to offsetting trans- actions was extended, and residents were permitted to hold foreign banknotes and coins in amounts up to DKr 2,000 and to dispose of them without restriction. Restrictions on imports of capital in connec- tion with Danish subsidiaries of foreign firms were relaxed, and the exchange control provisions governing the acquisition of real estate for private purposes by foreigners were abolished. Deferred payments for imports, the use of foreign bank credits to finance purchases of commodities abroad, and the granting of credits for exports were made permissible over longer periods. Provisions for the export of capital were also relaxed. The emigration allowance was increased, and capital assets, etc., belonging to other nonresidents were made transferable abroad without limitation. July 1. Fur ther commodities, inc lud ing footwear, paperboard, and pleasure boats, were taken off the restricted import list. September 13. In accordance with the Grain Law that became effective in June 1959, a temporary embargo was placed on imports of fodder grain. It was announced that this embargo would be lifted when the prices of Danish rye for fodder and barley rose to DKr 40 a barrel. November 1. The fo l low ing territories were added to the "Free List Area": A fghan is tan, Andorra, Argentina, Bhutan, Chile, Eritrea, Ethi- opia, French Somaliland, Iran, Lebanon, Nepal, Peru, Saudi Arab ia, the Sudan, Thailand, Uruguay, and Yemen. December 21. In accordance with an Executive Order issued by the Ministry of Commerce, further commodities, including frozen fish fillets, lingonberries, fireworks, stencils, electric accumulators, and certain musical instruments, would be taken off the restricted import list f rom January 1, 1962. December $1. The dollar export incentive scheme, which took the fo rm of the negotiation at a premium of special transferab le import rights given to exporters to the dollar area, was terminated. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1.00 = US$1. U.S. dollar trans- actions between the Central Bank and other banks take place at parity. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to small banking commissions (except on the purchase of travelers checks). All payments abroad must be made through banks, and there is an exchange licensing system, which in some cases is exercised in a restrictive manner and gives rise to delay in the granting of exchange. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange licenses are issued by the Central Bank of the Dom in ican Republic, and the commercial banks have the obligation to submit daily applications for exchange to the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Import-Export Coordinating Committee, which is comprised of representatives of the Central Bank and various govern- ment departments. Prescription of Currency No obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents prescribing the method of currency for payments to or f r om nonresidents, except that all payments abroad must be made through banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports: an import application (on Form CE-31) must be submitted to the Import-Export Coordinat- ing Committee and the fo rm is returned to the importer with the goods he is authorized to import recorded on it. Importers of motor vehicles and household electrical appliances are given individual quotas on the basis of their imports in a previous period. Applications for exchange to pay for imports have to be submitted daily by the banks for approval by the Central Bank. 1 In view of a change that took place on January 20, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted at the discretion of the Central Bank. Exchange sold to residents for foreign travel is normally limited to US$100 for each applicant ($50 in cash and $50 in travelers checks). The export of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for a few other special items. Exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank, for conversion into local currency, foreign exchange equal to not less than 90 per cent of the f.o.b. price of their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are not subject to exchange control. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Applications for exchange for outward capital remittances must be submitted by the banks for approval by the Central Bank. Changes during 1961 January 5. All imports, regardless of value, were made subject to the prior approval of the Import-Export Coordinating Committee on Form CE-31. Previously, the requirement to submit Form CE-31 applied only to imports whose c.i.f. value exceeded RD$1,000. February 7. A law was promulgated requiring all exporters of Dominican products to surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank, for conversion into local currency, foreign exchange equal to not less than 50 per cent of the f.o.b. price of the exported products; this surrender had to be effected within 48 hours of receiving payment. The Director General of Customs and Ports was required to transmit to the Central Bank within 72 hours of any export loading a copy of the sales documents, including information on the price of the export in the Dominican port. February 17. The percentage of foreign exchange f rom exports required to be surrendered was raised from 50 to 90. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC June 6. A decree canceled all existing regulations on the production, purchase, sale, distribution, pricing, and export of coffee and cocoa. Previously, these products had been subject to export monopolies and the prices paid to producers had been fixed. November 6. The requirement that 90 per cent of export receipts be surrendered was restated, with severe penalties for noncompliance. NOTE.—On Janua ry 20, 1962, the import and export of Dominican banknotes and coins was prohibited. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Ecuadoran Sucres 18.00 — US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to nearly all export receipts and payments for imports and related invisibles, to off ic ial transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all contractual private foreign debt operations entered into a f ter Ju ly 14, 1961. For all other transactions there is a f ree market, in wh ich the rate as at December 30, 1961 was S/ 21.63 buying, and S/ 21.73 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through which they must be settled. Most trans- actions pass through the off ic ial market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import licenses. Transactions that do not qua l i fy for the off ic ial market may enter the f r ee marke t —conduc ted mainly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such transactions are f ree of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency In principle, exchange proceeds must be received in convertible cur- rencies, usua l ly U.S. do l lars; but bilateral agreements with Co lomb ia and Spain require settlements through special accounts, denominated in U.S. dollars, at the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into two categories —essential and semiessential goods (List I) and nonessen t ial and luxury goods (List II). All goods not inc luded in these two lists are prohibited. The Monetary Board is au thor ized to make sh i f ts between the lists and to make additions to or deletions f rom them. Prior import licenses are required for substan- tially all imports exceeding a value of US$100, other than those repre- senting off ic ial foreign loans and those of certain foreign companies, but the licenses are issued freely provided that the various import taxes are paid and the appropriate advance deposit has been made. The license entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate. Advance deposits in sucres based on the c . i .f. value are requ ired for all nongovernmental imports (except those under the Agr icu l tural Surplus Agreement with the United States), as fo l lows: List I goods, 25 per 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR cen t; most List II goods, 50 per cent; and other List II goods, 100 per cent. These deposits are refunded at the time of remittance of the import payment. A consular fee of 10% per cent of the f.o.b. value and an import tax of 2% per cent of the c.i.f. value apply to all imports. In addition, import taxes of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List I goods and 15 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue for List II goods must be paid to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles may be made at the official rate but require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank. Licenses are granted for the following items: all invisibles connected with trade, e.g., freight and insurance; paymen ts and remittances of the Govern- ment and official entities; contractual interest payments, repayments on loans, and other obligations abroad wh ich are registered with the Central Bank; payments of dividends, profits, interest, and amortiza- tion on registered private foreign investments, up to 15 per cent annua l ly; contractual private foreign debt operations entered into a f ter July 14, 1961; and foreign exchange required by persons taking specialized courses abroad, provided that such persons are registered with the Central Bank and that the amounts do not exceed passenger fares, other expenses of travel, tu i t ion, and a max imum of US$100 a month for living expenses. Exchange in payment of other invisibles and capital movements may be obtained in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports other than those of certain foreign mining companies require licenses—which are issued by the Central Bank —to ensure among other things the fu ll surrender of all export proceeds; the off ic ial rate applies to all such proceeds. Minimum prices are established for exports of bananas according to port of shipment, destination, and season. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles related to trade and f rom other essential invisibles have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts may be sold in the free market and are not subject to exchange control. Capital Receipts of foreign capital may enter at the off ic ial rate if they are for approved purposes and are registered with the Central Bank. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Registered capital and earnings of up to 15 per cent as a minimum may be transferred annually at the official rate (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles, above). Foreign capital for official investments, and foreign capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency to pay local salaries, taxes, and other charges, has to be surrendered at the official rate. The Central Bank may refuse to register capital. Unregistered capital is free to enter through the f ree market in unlimited quantities. Foreign capital entering in the fo rm of machinery, tools, etc., is treated like foreign monetary capital and requires a license, except when it represents foreign official loans or the capital of certain foreign com- panies under contractual agreements with the Government. Machinery, equipment, implements, materials, and other similar items brought into the country as foreign investments and intended for the development of national production are exempt f rom taxes if such exemption is authorized by the Ministry of the Treasury; the ir re-export is f ree and exempt f rom duties. Changes during 1961 January 1. Exports of bananas packed in boxes were exempted f rom the exchange surrender requirements applicable to banana exports for an add i t ional period of 120 days. February 1. The Central Bank of Ecuador ceased selling foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate of S/ 15.15 per US$1 for List I imports if the exchange was to be used to make prepayments for imports or to finance them through letters of credit. February 20. From this date until March 22, 1961, export proceeds f rom cacao had to be surrendered to the Central Bank at a special rate of S/ 17.20 per US$1. (Since December 20, 1960, these proceeds had been perm i t ted at the f r ee market rate.) February 21. Banana exports to Asia were made subject to an exchange surrender requirement of US$1.00 per stem at the off ic ial rate of S/ 15.00 per US$1. March 7. Advance deposits were reintroduced on all imports except those by the Government: 25 per cent (in sucres) of the c.i.f. value for goods classified in List I; and 50 per cent (in foreign exchange acquired in the free market) of the c.i.f. value for goods in List II. Consular fees on the f.o.b. value of imports were increased f rom 9% per cent to 10% per cent. March 8. Payments in advance or by letter of credit were proh ib i ted for List II imports. 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR March H. Imports worth about US$8 million were transferred from List I to List II, including metallic ores, coal, light petroleum distillates, combustible oils, iron and steel ingots, copper, nickel, aluminum, and zinc. April 14. An import tax of 2% per cent on the c.i.f. value of all imports was introduced. April 18. The sale in the free market of the exchange proceeds of exports of chocolate and other cacao products was permitted. April 26. The sale in the free market of the exchange proceeds of exports of soluble coffee was permitted. May 22. Additional official exchange rates of S/ 18.00 buying, and S/ 18.20 selling, per US$1, were introduced. These rates applied to the proceeds of all marginal exports and payments for List II imports previously negotiated in the free market. Current nontrade transactions and capital movements remained in the f ree market, and transactions carried out at the official rates of S/ 15.00 buying, and S/ 15.15 selling, per US$1, also remained unchanged. At the same time, the 60 per cent of the exchange proceeds of exports of pharmaceutical products previ- ously sold at the rate of S/ 15.00 per US$1 could now be sold at the S/ 18.00 rate, and an additional exchange surrender requirement of US$0.60 per stem on exports of bananas was imposed at the rate of S/ 18.00 per US$1. May 23. Imports of network and displayed metals, previously on List II, were prohibited. May 31. Exchange proceeds from exports of bananas in boxes had to be surrendered at the rate of S/ 18.00 per US$1. July 14- A new par value of S/18.00 per US$1 was established and a ma jor change was made in the exchange system. Official rates of S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1, were established f or all trade and related transactions, for official transactions, for other essential invisibles, for registered capital, and for contractual private foreign debt operations entered into after July 14, 1961. The free market for other transactions continued. At the same time, the tax on List II imports was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. All advance deposits had now to be paid in sucres. Export proceeds, except those of certain foreign mining companies, had to be surrendered entirely, and minimum prices instead of minimum surrender prices were established for exports of bananas. The amount of amortization, dividends, profits, etc., on registered foreign capital that could be transferred annually was increased f rom 12 per cent to 15 per cent. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR August 17. Advance deposits were increased to 100 per cent on most List II imports, exceptions being some 100 items, for which the advance deposit requirement remained at 50 per cent. Imports under the Agricultural Surplus Agreement signed by the Governments of Ecuador and the United States on April 3, 1961 were exempted f rom advance deposits. September 20. Imports of anthracite coal, pig iron, and booksellers' wares were transferred f rom List II to List I. Quality steel wire mesh for certain uses was transferred from the list of prohibited imports to List II. October L Trade with Chile was placed on a convertible currency basis, but payments for imports from Chile would be charged against the bilateral account balance until it was liquidated. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Salvadoran Colones 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are $ 2.49 buying, and $ 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits and are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. There is a system of exchange control to prevent unau thor ized capital movements, but payments for current transactions are not restricted. Payments to Spain must, and payments to Nicaragua may, be made through special accounts. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license imports and exports, but th is power has not been exercised. Prescription of Currency Settlements for merchandise transactions with Spain must be made through special accounts in accordance with the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. El Salvador also has a bilateral payments agreement with N icaragua, but paymen ts for merchandise transactions with that country may be made either through special accounts or by other legal means. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. In practice, most payments are made in U.S. dollars, but Honduran lempiras and Gua tema lan quetzales are also used. Most current payments to Hon- duras and Guatemala are settled in Sa lvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensacion Cen troamer icana, a c lear ing house estab- lished by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents may be u t i l ized freely, but the com- mercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with authorized banks, subject to a limit on the average monthly balance. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not requ ired, but a few imports are subject to regulation. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, wh ich are granted free ly for all imports. Exchange for imports not exceeding US$2,000 is authorized by the commercial banks; larger amoun ts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire exchange licenses, which are granted free ly for current invisibles. The commercial banks may provide exchange f ree ly for certain purposes up to specified limits, e.g., up to US$200 a person each six months for tourist travel. The contract- ing for services of any k ind abroad or for services to be performed in El Salvador by nonresidents requires prior approval f rom the Exchange Control Department. Insurance and reinsurance contracts in foreign currency have to be registered. The foreign exchange regulations perm it travelers to take out 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased in order to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central American countries. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange surrendered. The proceeds of exports to Spain must be obtained through special accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. The foreign exchange control regulations permit travelers to bring in up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Capital All new exchange receipts arising out of capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses, which are not normally granted for resident- owned capital. The entry of capital in the fo rm of foreign investment requires the advance approval of and registration by the Ministry of Economy. Foreign investments in the fo rm of loans are registered by 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR the Exchange Control Department. Registration ensures (1) the annual remittance of net profits (or interest, in the case of loans) up to 10 per cent of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases) and of amortization payments as authorized, and (2) repatriation of the proceeds from the sale of the assets of the enterprise up to the amount of the registered investment. Foreign investments in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be regis- tered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Depart- ment in order to enjoy similar facilities. Changes during 1961 April 11. By Decree No. 107 of April 10, 1961, foreign exchange transactions were prohibited pending the introduction of new exchange control regulations. As a special measure, urgent and important trans- actions could be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. April 21. Decree No. 117, the Law for the Control of International Transfers, was promulgated. It required the surrender of all foreign exchange receipts derived from exports or f rom other transactions involving the t rans fer of funds f rom abroad. The Central Reserve Bank was authorized to sell exchange for remittances authorized by the Ministry of Economy to pay for imports and other current items. Balances held in the commercial banks on foreign exchange accounts could not be w i thdrawn except in colones or as otherwise authorized. The Ministry of Economy was empowered to require prior licensing of exports and imports and to operate the Law. Decree No. 118 set forth the regulations implementing the Law for the Control of International Transfers. The Law and the regulations would be applied by an Exchange Control Department in the Ministry of Economy. Among other things, a limit of fi 200 a person was placed on the amount of Salvadoran currency that could be taken in or out of El Salvador, but special provision was made for the movement of currency in respect of frontier trade with neighboring countries. June 1. Decrees Nos. 146 and 147 of May 30, 1961 came into effect, replacing Decrees Nos. 117 and 118 (see April 21, above). The exchange control authority was transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the Central Reserve Bank, and arrangements were introduced whereby all foreign investments must be registered to secure repatriation of capital and remittance of profits. October 1. Most current payments to Honduras and Guatemala could be settled in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Com- pensacion Centroamericana, a clearing house established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Eth$2.4750 buy ing, and Eth$2.5250 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through the State Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments must normally be made in fo re ign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency which is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Imports and Import Payments There are no import licenses, but payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses. These licenses are granted free ly in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in U.S. dollars or sterling for goods ordered through a third country. Application for an exchange license must be made prior to the arrival of the goods. For imports of certain nonessentials, the request for an exchange license must be accompanied by an advance payment to the State Bank of Ethiopia of a deposit in Ethiopian dollars of up to 100 per cent of the value of the goods to be imported, according to the category of the goods.1 These deposits may be used only to make payment for the goods; if the license is canceled, the deposit may be withdrawn. A l though the exchange license states that "method of payment must be letter of credit unless otherwise permitted," cash-against-documents, mail-transfer, and te legraph ic- transfer payments are, for the most part, allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees under contract with 1 With effect f rom Ap r il 1, 1962, the advance deposit requirements were canceled. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA the Ethiopian Government may remit currently a max imum of 30 per cent of their salaries. Other fore ign employees or personnel may be allowed to remit for fam i ly ma in tenance up to 30 per cent of their annual taxable income, subject to a maximum remittance of Eth$35,000 in the calendar year. Any expenditure abroad on education or for insurance premiums must be met f rom such remittances. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation, foreign com- panies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in the currency of the original investment; for approved projects, they may also transfer amortization at the rate of 10 per cent per annum. Emigrants' allowances and transfers of legacies are permitted up to Eth$50,000 or the equivalent in foreign currency. For larger sums, reference has to be made to the Foreign Exchange Advisory Committee; the policy of the Committee in such cases is to spread the total transfer over a period of years so that the amount transferred in any 12-month period does not exceed Eth$50,000. Persons traveling abroad are granted fore ign exchange equivalent to Eth$50 a day for a max imum period of six weeks if the jou rney is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$700 a year if the jou rney is made for pleasure and /or vacation. Travelers may take with them a m ax imum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must state the amount of fore ign exchange he expects to receive and he must submit sales contracts. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the State Bank of Ethiopia and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Per- sons may bring in a max imum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. All foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to license. Capital All receipts of capital in the fo rm of fore ign exchange must be sur- rendered. There is no d i sc r im ina t ion regard ing the currencies in wh ich fore ign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA approved new enterprises financed by foreign capital, including exemp- tion from taxes for a period of 5 years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors for the remittance abroad of earned profits a f ter taxation (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in the original currency, provided that in any 12-month period no more than the equivalent of Eth$50,000 is transferred. All payments to foreign countries on account of capital are subject to individual exchange license. Foreign exchange is granted for repayment abroad of matured capital and for the obligations of temporary residents. Foreign employees may remit all savings upon retirement, provided that not more than Eth$50,000 is transferred in any one 12-month period. Other types of capital t ran s fer are handled on a case-to-case basis. Changes during 1961 April 11. The maximum advance import deposit requirement of 150 per cent was reduced to 100 per cent, and advance deposit require- ments of 125 and 100 per cent were reduced to 75 per cent. April 11. Foreign employees or personnel not under contract with the Ethiopian Government would be allowed to remit abroad up to 30 per cent of their annual taxable income, subject to a maximum remittance of Eth$35,000 in a calendar year. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND * Exchange Rate System The par value is Finnish Markkas 320.00 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for externally convertible Western European currencies2 vary between limits resulting from the Finnish markka rate for the U.S. dollar in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies in their respective countries. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Official, fixed, buying and selling rates are applied to some inconvertible currencies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible Western European cur- rencies.2 Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding six months; f o rw a rd transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegat- ing authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office sub- ordinate to the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Office, which is presided over by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including one from the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries3 and convertible currency countries (all others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement or in Finnish markkas through Bilateral Accounts. Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. 1In view of changes that took place on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Finland has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Ru- mania, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident account: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka Accounts, Bilateral Markka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresidents in con- vertible or bilateral currencies.4 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kept; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Capital Accounts, for payments to residents of Finland, and for withdrawals in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency, and for transfers abroad or withdrawals in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilateral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish markkas. These accounts may be credited with the equivalent in Finnish markkas of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of Finland to residents of convertible currency countries; with transfers from other Convertible Markka Accounts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for transfers to other Con- vertible Markka Accounts, Bilateral Markka Accounts, or Capital Accounts. 3. Bilateral Markka Accounts are held in Finnish markkas by resi- dents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments agree- ments (see footnote 3). They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible Western European currencies, or the currency of the country of the account holder; with transfers from another Bilateral Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account holder; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account 4 Residents are also permitted to hold foreign exchange accounts. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Bilateral Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Convertible or a Bilateral Markka Account; with proceeds from the sale of any asset to a resident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident- held assets; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers from a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for the travel and living expenses in Finland of the account holder and members of his family or, if the holder is a firm, members of its staff, up to Fmk 100,000 for each person for each period of ten days; for payments not exceeding Fmk 100,000 for support of a person in distress in Finland; for payments for expenses incurred in administering the assets of the account holder; for invest- ments in bonds expressed in Finnish currency and purchased by a bank on the account holder's beha l f; for acquisition of shares on the basis of subscription rights to shares belonging to the same account holder and held in the custody of a bank; for the purchase through the Helsinki stock exchange of shares in place of other shares, held in the custody of a bank, that have been sold not more than a month before; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for monthly transfers abroad up to Fmk 100,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last three years, provided that he is destitute in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the license-free area under the global quota system, by which import licenses are issued up to the limits of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups. Payments for imports from the license- free area may be made in convertible currencies; however, from Brazil only direct import is permitted and payment must be made direct to 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Brazil. Imports f rom the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the related trade agreement. All other imports are subject to individual import license. Exchange is granted without delay for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to maximum allow- ances or other conditions, while for other transactions, with few excep- tions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 40,000 for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and Fmk 80,000 for each visit to other coun- tries. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 20,000 in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. All foreign exchange acquired through exports must be sur- rendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Certain export firms are also permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident travelers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland, which is granted in certain circumstances. Inheritances are in most cases approved for transfer without limita- tion and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred auto- matically up to Fmk 3,200,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents are permitted to transfer their blocked assets to their country of residence (1) by immediate transfer of an amount up to Fmk 1,000,000 plus the accrued interest, if the balance had been deposited with Finnish banks prior to September 1, 1939; (2) by immediate transfer if the assets at the end of 1959 did not exceed Fmk 50,000; (3) by remitting amortization quotas of bonds of a special ten-year Convertible Bond Loan issued in 1959 by the Republic of Finland and open to holders of blocked assets; or (4) by transferring the blocked balances in ten annual installments, subject to certain conditions. Nonresident bondholders may repatriate amounts falling due on account of redemption of Finnish markka bonds issued before Sep- tember 1, 1939. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies or externally convertible Western European currencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired are deposited in the custody of an authorized bank, the non- resident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through an authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency or an externally convertible Western European currency. No permission is needed for the purchase of bonds with funds classified as Capital Accounts, or for the purchase with bilateral currencies of stocks and bonds quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange; but proceeds of the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with foreign exchange or with Finnish markkas from a Convertible or Bilateral Markka Account, approval for their export is granted 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND liberally. The import of securities by nonresidents and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. All inward capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland; moreover, foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of the enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council, which also examines other aspects. The Bank of Finland grants permission liberally, except where it would be contrary to the national interest; the approval of the State Council, when required, is also granted liberally. At the time it approves each incoming transaction, the Bank of Finland may state the conditions for repatriation of the capital. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets and yields on their property owned abroad. Outward transfers of capital by residents are subject to individual approval. For direct investments, approval is granted liberally on the merits of the case. Emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 250,000 a person. Changes during 1961 January 1. The obligation to surrender foreign exchange was limited to receipts from merchandise exports, freight, and sales of real property and securities. Residents were permitted to hold foreign exchange that did not have to be surrendered in foreign exchange accounts, either with authorized Finnish banks or abroad. January 1. The liberalization of imports was increased by extending the application of license-free import treatment to almost all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements. February 17. The bilateral payments agreement with Israel having been terminated, transactions with that country were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. June 26. Finland's association with the European Free Trade Asso- ciation came into force. July 1. The global quotas for imports in 1961 were increased, and imports of certain commodities were liberalized. July 1. Restrictions were relaxed on payments for chartered foreign means of transport, settlements made by travel agencies, exchange allocations for business travel and for emigrants, pensions, and trans- fers on account of family maintenance. Transfers of capital and the yield therefrom, and the use of balances on Capital Accounts, were also liberalized. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 6. The maximum duration for commercial credits and deferred payment terms obtained abroad in connection with imports without permission f rom the Bank of Finland was reduced from one year to six months. FINLAND NOTE.—The following changes became effective on January 1, 1962: (1) Export licensing was eliminated, except for exports of metal scrap. (2) Japan, Kuwait, Muscat and Oman, Sierra Leone, and Tanganyika were added to the list of countries benefiting from license-free import treatment; the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Viet-Nam were removed from the list. (3) License-free import treatment was extended to certain groups of commodities; certain agricultural commodities were transferred from the license-free list to the list of restricted imports. (4) All global import quotas for 1962 were enlarged by at least 20 per cent. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE' Exchange Rate System The par value is New Francs 4.93706 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of NF 4.90 buying, and NF 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies fluctuate between limits result- ing from the f ranc rate for the U.S. dollar in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies in their respective countries. Forward transactions take place at rates freely determined by supply and demand. Authorized banks in continental France (including Corsica and the Principality of Monaco) are permitted to deal spot or forward in the Paris exchange market in all currencies. They may also deal with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies except Czechoslovak korunas. Contracts concerning forward transactions by authorized banks among themselves and with their correspondents abroad may not exceed a period of six months. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises (1) the territory of the French Republic, i.e., continental France, Corsica, the Departments of Algeria, Oasis, and Saoura, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Marti- nique, Guiana, and Reunion), the Overseas Territories except French Somaliland (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia); (2) the Con- dominium of the New Hebrides; and (3) the Republic of Cameroun, the Central Afr ican Republic, the Republic of Chad, the Republic of the Congo (Brazzaville), the Republic of Dahomey, the Gabon Republic, the Republic of Guinea, the Republic of the Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, the Republic of the Mali, the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, the Republic of the Niger, the Republic of Senegal, the Republic of Togo, Tunisia, and the Republic of the Upper Volta. Most payments agreements concluded by France provide for settle- ments between the French Franc Area as a whole and the other xln view of a change that took place on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE country concerned. Payments f rom France to other parts of the French Franc Area, except Guinea, are f ree of restriction. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs is granted extensive authority in trade and exchange control. Various departments of the Ministry are concerned with the issue and supervision of import and export documents, the issue of licenses for payments related to imports and exports, control of import payments and export proceeds, the preparation of decisions concerning, and control over, French invest- ments abroad and foreign investments in France, and the preparation of regulations concerning foreign trade and exchange. The Bank of France is concerned with the issue of licenses for transactions of a financial nature, controls relating to assets held abroad, the repatriation of income, transactions in foreign securities, etc. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs on the proposals of the Governor of the Bank of France. Prescription of Currency General exchange control regulations and, in specific cases, indi- vidual decisions prescribe the currency and method of settlement between residents and nonresidents. For prescription of currency purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into two groups: the bilateral group2 and the area of convertibility (all other countries). Settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments to countries in the bilateral group are made by crediting a Foreign Account in Bilateral Francs related to the country concerned. Payments f rom the bilateral group may be received to the debit of a Foreign Account in Bilateral Francs related to the country concerned, or by the same methods as those prescribed for receipts from the area of convertibility. Settlements with countries in the bilateral group may also be made in their respective currencies if the regulations of the other country permit this, as in the case of Czechoslovakia. Settlements with Hungary, Laos, and Viet-Nam are subject to special regulations. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, and Rumania. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Nonresident Accounts The classification of nonresident accounts in French francs cor- responds to the grouping of countries for prescription of currency purposes: Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs, for residents of countries in the area of convertibility, and Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs, for residents of countries in the bilateral group. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs are not related to a specific country, while Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs are designated according to the country of residence of the account holder. A non- resident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for a nonresident foreigner or for a French national who has been residing abroad for at least four years. Nonresident accounts established under certain bilateral agreements may be opened only with the approval of the Bank of France. Nonresident accounts in francs may not show a debit balance unless specifically permitted. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs may be used for settlements with residents of the French Franc Area (including settlements for imports and exports). They may be credited freely with francs obtained from sales of currencies of countries in the area of convertibility in the exchange market in France or through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; and with French francs obtained from the sale of foreign banknotes. They may be debited freely for purchases in the exchange market in France of any foreign currency negotiated in that market; for purchases of the currency of any country in the area of convertibility through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; for transfers to the credit of another Foreign Account in Convertible or Bilateral Francs; and for the purchase of foreign banknotes. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs may be used for settlements with residents of the French Franc Area (including settlements for imports and exports), provided that the nonresident concerned resides in the foreign country to which the account to be used is related. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales in the exchange market in France of currencies of countries in the area of convertibility; with French francs obtained f rom the sale of foreign banknotes; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs related to the same country are free. In addition, these accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales in the exchange market in France of the currency of the country concerned, but this possibility exists only when the regu- lations of the other country permit, as in the case of Czechoslovakia. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Other transactions through Foreign Accounts require individual permits. Imports and Import Payments Imports into France from other parts of the French Franc Area are generally free of quantitative restriction and individual license; all imports from the Republic of Guinea are, however, subject to individual license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups, from which liberalized imports are free of quantitative restriction and individual license, as follows: (1) most imports originating in the former OEEC countries and their dependent territories, Andorra, and Finland; (2) most imports origi- nating in Canada and the United States; (3) imports covered by over 700 customs tariff items or subitems from 43 specified countries;8 and (4) imports covered by over 180 customs tariff items or subitems from all countries. The list of commodities for each group includes all the commodities in the list for the following group. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one group may be imported freely from any country in that group, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the liberalization. Liberalized imports of up to NF 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs; above this figure, most liberalized imports are admitted on the basis of a declaration com- pleted by the importer. (These two procedures account for over 75 per cent of imports.) Liberalized imports requiring an administra- tive visa (spare parts, etc.) are made on the basis of an import attestation on which the administrative visa is stamped. Other imports require individual import licenses, which are granted (1) within quotas determined on an individual commodity basis and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements and an import plan drawn up for a definite period; (2) in accordance with special import procedures; or (3) on an individual basis. Raw materials or other goods needed for the production of 3 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Burma, Bolivia, Brazil, Ceylon, Chile, China (Taiwan), Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, South Africa, Sudan, Thailand, Urugua3r, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE goods to be exported may be imported liberally under special procedures (IMEX and EXIM).4 Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), licenses for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters are granted provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. The import facilities under EFAC arrangements, as well as those under IMEX and EXIM procedures, have only limited importance, in view of the high degree of import liberalization. A very small proportion of imports is effected through compensation transactions —mainly agricultural items f rom the Soviet bloc. Imports exceeding NF 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment is required before the goods reach France, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which all necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. For goods imported under the import declaration or attestation procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been domiciled with an authorized bank, arrange with the bank to purchase spot or forward exchange up to six months before dispatch of the goods. However, as a general rule, payments to the foreign exporter may be made only af ter the documents have been presented to prove that the goods have been shipped, unless payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of a commercial contract approved by the Administration and/or an import license. Payments for Invisibles Control over payments in respect of many categories of invisibles is supervisory, to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. Payments for invisibles related to approved trade trans- actions are permitted freely. However, foreign exchange is not granted to exporters and importers for insurance abroad of risks concerning persons, property, or liability in France, which may be insured only in France with French insurance companies or foreign companies authorized to conduct insurance business in France. Income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties is 4 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed by French producers for the production of goods for export. Exports should be sent to the same monetary area as that of the imports or to a "better" monetary area. The lag between importation and exportation may not exceed six months. Under the EXIM procedure, exporters are assured of receiving import licenses for the subsequent importation of goods used in the production of their exports. The time lag between exportation and importation is six to nine months. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE remittable, subject to supervision. Exchange up to NF 400 monthly for each beneficiary is granted for family maintenance abroad. Appro- priate foreign exchange is granted for the remittance of banking com- missions, patent fees, royalties, and specified categories of taxes. Transfers on account of membership fees, subscriptions, donations, and emigrants' funds are also permitted. The authorized banks are per- mitted to make transfers abroad freely, up to NF 100 per remittance, for any purpose. The exchange allowance for French residents for tourist travel abroad is NF 2,500 a calendar year,5 and for business travel abroad, NF 1,000 for each jou rney; the business travel allowance may be taken in addition to the tourist exchange allowance. Moreover, resi- dents may freely make arrangements through licensed travel agencies operating in France, or purchase credit cards in France, for their traveling expenses abroad, without limitation and independently of any exchange allocation. Travelers may take with them out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) up to NF 500 in metropolitan francs, or up to 50,000 francs in CFA francs or CFP francs; in addition, residents are permitted to take with them foreign notes and corns which they did not use during previous travel abroad, up to the equivalent of NF 500.6 Resident travelers are also permitted to use abroad the French banknotes they took with them and to bring back freely any foreign banknotes purchased with the French banknotes. Nonresident travelers leaving France may exchange into foreign currency French banknotes and coins up to NF 100 without any formality, and up to NF 1,000 upon presentation of proof that the French banknotes and coins presented for exchange resulted from the sale of foreign currency or from debiting a nonresident account within the two months preced- ing their departure from France. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are subject to individual license; but such exports may be made, subject to certain limitations, without any formality if the total value does not exceed NF 500. Exports free of license may be made without formality if the total value does not exceed NF 5,000. 5 With effect from February 24, 1962, this allowance was increased to NF 3.500 for each trip. 6 With effect from February 24, 1962, these limits were raised to NF 750 in metropolitan francs, 75,000 francs in CFA or CFP francs, and the equivalent of NF 750 in foreign notes and coins, respectively. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Export proceeds may be the object of a 180-day credit and must thereafter be collected within 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make authorized payments abroad within a month from the date of their receipt; the remainder must be surrendered. Certain per- centages of export proceeds are, however, exempt from the surrender requirement.7 These retained percentages of export proceeds are kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which are separate for each foreign currency or, in the case of export proceeds received in francs, according to the type of the nonresident franc account debited for the payment. EFAC accounts may be used only by the account holder for the needs of his professional activity. At the end of quarterly periods, 10 per cent of unused balances on EFAC accounts have to be surrendered; minimum balances not exceeding NF 1,000 or the equivalent in foreign currencies are not affected by this requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Amounts due from residents of countries outside the French Franc Area in respect of services, and of income exceeding NF 500 from foreign securities, must be collected and, if not used to make authorized payments abroad, must be surrendered within a month from the date of receipt. Sales of goods by authorized producers and merchants to foreign tourists in France are made at discounts ranging from 10 to 25 per cent, corresponding to exemption from purchase taxes on the products concerned. These discounts are granted only on purchases made against checks or travelers checks expressed in currencies negotiated on the Paris exchange market, or checks issued by foreign correspondents of French banks to the debit of nonresident franc accounts. Travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency. Capital Most outward transfers of capital by residents require approval. Transfers in respect of legacies, dowries, and, subject to certain time limitations, emigration of foreign nationals, are permitted freely with- out special authorization. Capital assets abroad belonging to or 7 The highest percentage is accorded to holders of exporters1 cards, which are given to enterprises that have exported a certain percentage of their production. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE acquired by residents are not subject to repatriation or surrender. Residents of foreign nationality may dispose freely of their assets abroad. Residents of French nationality are permitted to reinvest such assets either in quoted securities in accordance with a general authorization or in other investments under individual license. Sub- scriptions to new issues may be made only by using the proceeds from sales of securities already owned by residents of French nationality. Exchange proceeds from sales of foreign securities expressed in foreign currencies and owned by residents of French nationality (so-called devises-litres) may be sold at a free market rate to other residents of French nationality, who in turn may use the exchange only to purchase securities quoted in foreign markets.8 The following operations and transactions related to nonresident investments may be made freely, provided that the investment is financed in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations applicable to the country of residence of the foreign investor: (1) spot and forward purchases on stock exchanges in France of specified French securities9 officially quoted on those stock exchanges; (2) sub- scriptions to an increase in the capital of a French company, provided that its shares are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France; (3) subscriptions, at the time of issuance, to short-term or long-term securities and bonds issued by a French public service organization or by a private enterprise having its head office in France, provided that the securities issued by a private enterprise are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France; (4) acquisition on a spot basis through the intermediary of a notary public of immovable property or rights to such property located in France; and (5) loans to residents in accordance with certain prescribed conditions (the exchange of letters between a lender and a borrower must explicitly stipulate that repay- ment will be made directly by the borrower to the authorized bank whose services were used in financing the operation, in order that the transfer of funds may be made in accordance with the regulations). The liquidation of these investments and the transfer of proceeds accruing from their liquidation may be made freely. The import of French and foreign securities on behalf of residents or nonresidents is free, provided that it is carried out through the intermediary of an authorized bank. The export of French securities held in France is permitted if they are at the f ree disposal of a resident 8 The Astern of devises-litres was abolished with effect from April 1, 1962. 9 Securities expressed in foreign currencies and issued by French companies or organizations are considered as foreign securities. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE of the area of convertibility. The export of foreign securities on behalf of residents of foreign nationality is permitted only when such securities were held by them prior to September 10, 1939 or were acquired with a permit after that date. Immovable property and French securities in France belonging to nonresidents may be transferred between residents of all countries in the area of convertibility or between residents of the same bilateral country. Foreign securities held in France by nonresi- dents may be transferred between nonresidents irrespective of their country of residence. Banknotes Authorized banks are permitted to buy foreign banknotes freely f rom any person against payment in French francs and, in accordance with a general or individual license, to sell foreign banknotes to residents going abroad against payment in French francs. They are also permitted to buy foreign banknotes from other authorized banks and from their foreign correspondents against payment in any foreign currency acquired in the exchange market in France or against any other foreign banknotes, or by crediting any nonresident account. Authorized banks are permitted to sell foreign banknotes to other authorized banks or to their foreign correspondents against payment in any other foreign banknotes or in currencies used for settlements with the area of convertibility, including French francs debited to a Foreign Account in Convertible Francs. Foreign currencies acquired from the sale of foreign banknotes are to be sold immediately in the exchange market. Changes during 1961 January 5. The import free list applicable to "all countries" was extended. January 16. Tickets for all transportation abroad by individual residents could be paid in French francs; previously, only tickets for direct transportation f rom and to France could be paid in French francs. January 16. Settlements with Yugoslavia were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. January 25. Residents were permitted to obtain through the inter- mediary of authorized banks, without specific authorization, loans from nonresidents in both French and foreign currency, and not, as previously, only in French francs. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE March 81. Imports from OEEC countries and their dependent terri- tories and from Canada and the United States were further liberalized. April 9. The import f ree list applicable to the 43 specified countries was extended. April 23. Exchange for imports could be provided on a spot or a forward basis in every case; previously, this was possible only when a documentary credit was opened. May 12. Nonresident travelers leaving France were permitted to exchange into foreign currency French banknotes and coins up to NF 100 without any formality and up to NF 1,000 upon presentation of proof that the French banknotes and coins presented for exchange resulted from the sale of foreign currency within the two months preceding the traveler's departure from France. The exchange by nonresident travelers of French banknotes and coins amounting to NF 1,000 and over required the approval of the Bank of France. May 81. Payments for repairs and the processing abroad of materials could be made by the authorized banks without individual license. The export of goods for repair and processing abroad and their reimport were exempted f rom license. June 15. Imports from OEEC countries and their dependent terri- tories and from Canada and the United States were further liberalized. June 18. The annual basic exchange allocation to resident travelers was increased f rom NF 1,500 to NF 2,500 a person, and the maximum amount of French banknotes which they are permitted to take on each trip was increased f rom NF 250 to NF 500. In addition, resident travelers were permitted to take with them foreign notes and coins not used by them during previous travel abroad, up to the equivalent of NF 500. Resident travelers were also permitted to use abroad French banknotes taken abroad by them and to bring back freely foreign banknotes purchased with the French banknotes. The basic exchange allowance for residents traveling abroad on business was raised from NF 750 to NF 1,000 a trip. October 9. Authorized banks were permitted to make the following transfers, subject to presentation of justifying documents: fees to lawyers, medical doctors, attorneys, etc.; rents and similar payments due to nonresident owners and administrators of farms in France; payments due on account of participation in foreign congresses, con- ferences, etc.; alimony payments due in accordance with court decisions. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE November 1. Net monthly salaries of foreign workers employed in France were permitted to be transferred abroad within three months from the date of payment. This authorization replaced all previous regulations governing transfers of salaries of nonresident workers employed in France. NOTE.—On January 1, 1962, import procedures were simplified: import licenses would be required only for imports subject to quantita- tive restriction, and imports free of such restriction could be made either on the basis of a declaration, or, if subject to the requirement of an administrative visa, on the basis of an attestation. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 1 Exchange System The par value is Deutsche Mark 4.00 = US$1. The official rates of the Deutsche Bundesbank are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. These rates are, however, considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for Western European currencies fluctuate between the limits resulting from the official dollar rates for the deutsche mark in Ger- many in relation to the official dollar rates for the other currencies in the respective countries. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of market forces, but at present a small charge is made on dollar swap transactions. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. There are no restrictions on payments. There are no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings and these may be held in Germany or abroad. Nonresident and resident accounts are not subject to any exchange control limitations. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, with the exception of savings accounts in deutsche mark of individual persons, may not carry interest; in certain cases a special license may be granted. The Federal Republic of Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of controls in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt jur gewerbliche Wirtschajt), the Foreign Trade Agency for Food and Agriculture (Aussenhandelsstelle fur Erndhrung und Landwirtschaft), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. 1The trade and exchange control regulations established by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany are, for the most part, applied also in the British, French, and U.S. sectors of Berlin. The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany. In view of certain changes that took place early in 1962 (see note at the endi of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 1, 1962. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Imports and Import Payments Quantitative restrictions are not applied to imports of most com- modities purchased f rom and originating in countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc; out of a total of 6,601 items, 6,190 may be imported freely from those countries. In addition, 156 items are liberalized when they originate in the former OEEC countries and their dependent territories. Thirty-seven items originating in Yugoslavia are excluded from the liberalization treatment. Certain solid fuels are liberalized only when purchased and imported f rom other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Community. Goods free f rom quantitative restriction are not subject to license either for import or for payment, and no prior control is exercised over such goods; but ex post control is carried out by the federal authorities, and an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank is required, which serves as documentation for customs control and for statistical purposes. For imports still subject to quantitative restric- tion, an individual import license is required. Payments for imports are free, even where the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may generally also be carried out freely, the only requirement being that of an ex post declaration, for statistical purposes. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. The following transactions —but not the related payments— between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways t ra f f ic; transactions covering the processing of goods abroad where exports of the goods to be processed or imports of the processed goods are restricted; trans- actions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treat- ment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresi- dents pertaining to motion-picture films.2 German and foreign notes and coins may be exported freely. 2 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in Eastern bloc countries, and the acceptance of film services from Eastern bloc countries. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters may freely conclude export contracts with fore ign importers and carry through the export of commodities. For all goods up to a value of DM 1,000, and for certain specified exports regardless of value, only an export notification, serving statistical purposes, is required. All other exports require, in addition, export declarations, and certain commodities —mostly strategic goods —are subject to individual license. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered and may be used for all payments. Claims of more than DM 2,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported to the authorities, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With a few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Special licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services; the sale of, or the granting of licenses for, inventions, patents, registered designs, trademarks, etc., to residents of certain countries; and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu fac tu re, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. Services related to import or export transactions that are subject to individual license also require licenses. Receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of services have to be reported, with the exception of receipts in connection with travel. German and foreign notes and coins may be imported freely. Capital There are virtually no restrictions on imports or exports of capital by residents or nonresidents, and such transactions may be carried out freely without an individual license. However, domestic money-market paper (Treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities—if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securities later at a definitely fixed price —may not be sold to nonresidents without an individual license. All capital move- ments to or from foreign countries exceeding DM 500 or the equivalent in foreign currency must be reported when a maturity of 12 months or more has been fixed at the time of concluding the contract. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Changes during 1961 January 1. Certain modifications were made in import licensing. While the group including OEEC countries and their dependent territories, as previously defined, remained the same except for the inclusion of Somalia, the group comprising mainly the dollar area countries and the group comprising countries outside the dollar area, the OEEC and dependent territories, and the Sino-Soviet bloc were combined as a single group. Most commodities purchased from and originating in the countries in the two new groups, i.e., all countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc, could be imported free of quantitative restriction. In addition, imports of 154 items were liberalized when originating in the first group mentioned above. About 40 items originat- ing in Yugoslavia and some 6 items originating in Uruguay were excluded f rom the liberalization treatment. January 20, The Bundesbank's swap premium on the export of funds was reduced f rom ll/2 per cent to 1 per cent. February 8. The Bundesbank's swap premium on the export of funds was reduced from 1 per cent to % per cent. February 9. The Bundesbank's swap premium on the export of f u n ds was reduced from % per cent to % per cent. February 13. The swap premium of % per cent paid by the Bundes- bank on the export of f u n ds was abolished. March 6. The par value of the deutsche mark was changed from DM 4.20 per US$1 to DM 4.00 per US$1. August H. A charge of % per cent a year on dollar swap transac- tions was introduced. September 1. The Foreign Trade and Payments Law of April 28,1961 replaced the provisions of Law No. 53 of the former military govern- ment applicable to foreign trade and payments. The new law estab- lished the principle that all transactions with foreign countries are free unless specifically prohibited or regulated. Import restrictions permitted under the law can be maintained for the protection of certain sectors of the economy, or for certain other reasons (under the terms of international agreements ratified by Germany, retaliation against the actions of other countries, or for reasons of national security). Under the new law, capital transactions can only be restricted in order to maintain the value of the currency, or to restore the balance of pay- ments, or for the same reasons as those required to ju s t i fy import restrictions. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY December 15. The charge of % per cent a year on dollar swap trans- actions was abolished. December 29. The exceptional arrangements applicable to 6 imports originating in Uruguay (see January 1, above) were abolished. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1962: January 2. A charge of % per cent a year on dollar swap transactions was reintroduced. January 8. The charge of % per cent a year on dollar swap trans- actions was increased to % per cent a year. January 10. The charge of % per cent a year on dollar swap trans- actions was increased to % per cent a year. February 1. The prohibition on the payment of interest was lifted on balances held as cover for credits established. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ghana Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are un iform and are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Ghana pound is at par. The Bank of Ghana does not quote rates other than for the pound sterling; it deals in sterling at rates within % of 1 per cent on either side of parity, the statutory limits being % of 1 per cent on either side of parity. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transac- tions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may exchange Ghana currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Ghana under powers conferred by the Exchange Control Act and Regulations, 1961. Authority for approving payments for imports and providing travelers with standard allocations of foreign exchange is delegated to the authorized banks. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Finance and Trade, subject to approval by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the import and export system is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports, whose office constitutes a department of the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The responsibility for issuing licenses also rests with the Controller, to whom applications to import or export must be submitted before import orders are placed or exports shipped. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area, and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in Ghana pounds, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in Ghana pounds to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in Ghana pounds f rom a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is freely exchangeable for sterling or Ghana pounds. However, settle- 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA ments related to transactions covered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Ghana pounds held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. Accounts in Ghana pounds held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. In addition to Foreign and Sterling Area Accounts, there are Blocked Accounts, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital pro- ceeds. These may be debited for authorized purposes, including invest- ments in approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to individual license. Imports f rom South Africa, South West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are approved only in exceptional circumstances. When the importer has obtained a license, exchange is provided auto- matically by an authorized bank after the importer has filed an application for foreign exchange (or Ghana pounds to be paid to a nonresident account) and has submitted to the bank the necessary 1 Ghana maintains such agreements with the following countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghana pounds unless otherwise no ted): Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Eastern Germany, Guinea (U.S. dollars), Hungary, Israel (sterling), Mali, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic (Egyptian pounds), Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. On January 27, 1962, a bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Cuba. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA documentary evidence. Af ter arrival of the goods, the importer must supply the exchange control with evidence of importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require specific approval of the exchange control, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Applications for some payments are approved on request. These include commercial payments, investment income transfers and depreciation allowances, expenses for study abroad, subscriptions, and member- ship fees. Other applications are approved up to established limits: education expenses in connection with correspondence courses; trans- fers of income of nonresidents; tourist and other travel expenses; gifts; and charitable and missionary remittances by individuals and societies. For travel, residents are granted an exchange allowance for the year ending October 31, 1962 of £G 100 for each person 12 years of age or over and £G 70 for each person under that age. A resident who did not use his basic travel allowances in the two years prior to November 1, 1961 is permitted to obtain the unused portion of the allowances which would have been obtainable in those years, in addition to the allowance to which he is entitled in the year ending October 31, 1962. Exchange allocations are also granted for cars and motorcycles taken abroad. In addition, residents may buy tickets in Ghana to the country of destination. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them banknotes in pounds sterling, Ghana pounds, other Sterling Area currencies, and other currencies, up to £G 20 in each category —the total limit being the equivalent of £G 80. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods require specific licenses f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Most exports are made through the Ghana Agricultural Produce Marketing Board. Exports to South Africa, South West Afr ica, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. Exporters are required to obtain payment in the prescribed manner within six months of shipment and to surrender the foreign exchange to an au thor ized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Currency notes may be imported freely, except that French West A f r ican f r anc notes may be imported only with the approval of the Bank of Ghana, wh ich in practice permits the import of such notes 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA by travelers, except those from the Republic of Togo, provided that they are declared at the time of entry. Capital Movements of capital are subject to approval, and applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence. Investments in Ghana of foreign funds in excess of £G 15,000 require prior approval if eventual repatriation of the funds is to be guaranteed. Investments of such funds up to £G 15,000 need only be notified to the exchange control in order to qualify for automatic eventual repatriation. Subscription by a nonresident to the memorandum of association of a company incorporated under the Companies Ordinance of Ghana must be approved. Capital invested with such permission is accorded "approved status," and qualifies for automatic repatriation to its country of origin or to the monetary area from which it came. Profits due to nonresidents may be remitted in fu ll a f ter deduction of local income tax. Profits f rom one enterprise which are invested temporarily in another enterprise may be remitted later, provided that the investment in the second enterprise had been agreed with the authorities before it was made. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies and transfers of deceased persons' estates are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Foreign nationals are allowed, when they retire and return to their home countries, an initial repatriation of their personal assets of up to £G 5,000 according to circumstances; any remaining assets are transferab le over a period of five years. Emigrants are granted £G 5,000 for a fam i ly unit, plus £G 100 for each fam i ly un it to meet landing expenses at destination, amounts exceeding these limits being blocked. Transfers on account of dowries are permitted up to £G 3,600. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In the case of por tfo l io investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Changes during 1961 May 31. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with the United Arab Republic. June 1. A ban was imposed on imports of goods originating in and consigned f rom Portugal and/or the Portuguese Monetary Area. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA June 28. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Upper Volta. July 5. Exchange control was extended to transactions with all countries, inc lud ing those in the Sterling Area. Previously, transfers between Ghana and other par ts of the Sterling Area had not been sub- ject to off ic ial control. July 6. A b i la teral trade and payments agreement was signed with Guinea. July 8. A b i la te ral t rade and payments agreement was signed with Mali. August 18. A. bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Ma in land China. September 30. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Ruman ia. October 5. A bilateral trade agreement and a bilateral payments agreement were signed with Bu lgar ia. October 7. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Albania. October 11. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Yugoslavia. October 16. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Czechoslovakia. October 19. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Eastern Germany. October 23. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Hungary. October 26. A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Poland. November 4- A bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with the U.S.S.R. December 1. All open general import and export licenses, and quota licenses for imports, were revoked, thus mak ing all exports and imports sub ject to ind iv idual license. December 20. A bilateral t r ade and payments agreement was signed with Dahomey. December 22. French West A f r i c an f r anc notes could be imported only with the prior consent of the Bank of Ghana. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is Greek Drachmas 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 29.85 buying, and Dr 30.15 selling, per US$1. The rate of the drachma in relation to other currencies is determined by the Bank of Greece on the basis of the parity relationship of each currency to the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, and a Currency Committee. Controls are implemented and applied by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are made on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved or in the currency and manner provided for by trade and payments agreements. Under the terms of most of the agreements, settlements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account, or in the currency of the partner country.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to hold, for current transactions, Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with trans- fers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any currency if the account is in drachmas, or for transfers abroad in the currency of the account if it is maintained in a convertible currency. 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. In addition, Greece has payments agree- ments with Norway, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, and Turkey within the frame- work of the European Monetary Agreement, involving settlements of outstanding balances on a monthly basis in convertible currencies. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to specified amounts, purchases of securities officially listed on the Greek stock exchange, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Blocked balances may also be deposited with a commercial bank as sight deposits, where they earn current interest. Imports and Import Payments For all private imports, one of two general import procedures, ma in- tained mainly for statistical purposes, applies: (1) The approval of an authorized bank is required to import goods f rom bilateral agree- ment countries when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing accoun t; or from EM A countries when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European cu r rency; or f rom Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. aid. (2) An import approval issued by the main o f f ice of the Bank of Greece is required for imports f rom countries specified in procure- ment authorizations covering imports financed by U.S. a id, and for imports f rom any other country when the method of settlement d i f f e rs f rom those mentioned under (1), above. Commodities included in Lists A and B require special import licenses. Licenses for imports on List A are granted liberally. Imports of certain types of machinery and machinery spare parts included in List B require prior licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry; such licenses are issued restrictively. Imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by the Greek oil refinery require prior licenses f r om the Ministry of Trade. Special regulations govern imports of some other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, wheat and flour, rice, sulphur, and motion pictures. The granting of an import license implies allocation of the required fore ign exchange. Payments for imports may be made in one of the fo l low ing ways: (1) by opening a documentary letter of credit; (2) for goods contained in special commodity lists, in cash against presentation of shipping documents (sight d r a f t ); or (3) for certain other specified commodi- ties, on a deferred payments basis (time d r a f t ). All imports may be paid for by letter of credit, but the opening of a letter of credit is obligatory for certain categories of luxury and other goods contained in List A. Payment on the basis of documen tary credit implies that the importer will deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit as 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE soon as it is established with the Greek bank through which the trans- action is conducted. For imports of certain commodities (mainly con- sumer goods) paid for by opening a documentary credit, an importer must deposit, as security for import duties and other charges, an amount in cash equal to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. For payment on the basis of cash against shipping documents (sight d ra f t ) —wh ich is permitted for goods contained in special com- modity lists —an importer must deposit with his bank, prior to the issuance of an import approval, an amount in cash equal to 50 per cent or 100 per cent of the invoiced value, according to the commodity to be imported; in addition, he must deposit 20 per cent or 40 per cent, respectively, of the c.i.f. value of the import as security for import duties and taxes. For imports of specified textiles, total deposits amount to 280 per cent of the c.i.f. invoiced value. Certain commodi- ties paid for against sight draf ts, mainly foodstuffs, are exempt f r om these advance deposit requirements. Certain specified commodities are eligible for importation on a deferred payments basis (time d r a f t ). Foreign supplier credits may be accepted for 3 to 24 months, depending on the commodity imported. The Minister of Trade may authorize longer payment periods, and he may approve payment on a time draft basis for imports which are not included in the special lists. Imports against time d ra f ts are not subject to advance deposits, but a personal guarantee equivalent to 8 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods to be imported is required. For sight and time draft shipments payable with U.S. aid funds, importers must deposit, within 10 days from the date of obtaining the import approval, a cash or bank guarantee covering 10 per cent of the value of the goods, in addition to any other downpayment required. After making arrangements for payment, and upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for clearance of the goods, and the advance deposits are refunded. If the importer fails to fu l f i ll the conditions prescribed for the import or payment of the goods, a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods is payable. Greek importers who place orders abroad prior to the issuance of an import permit may also be subject to a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, legal entities, and public companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require individual licenses, but these are granted free ly for expenses incidental to au thor ized t rade transactions 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (e.g., shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, fire, accident, and l ife) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for family reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to US$150 for each trip. Exporters and manu- facturers are allowed US$20 a day for a maximum of 45 days when they go to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the amount is US$15 a day for a maximum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or f rom other businessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Sub- committee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 2,000 in Greek banknotes. Nonresident travelers holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange when leaving Greece if the amount of such exchange exceeds US$500 or its equiva- lent; if they hold foreign passports, no declaration is required. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to individual license, but most exports are f ree of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Foreign exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disburse- ments and expenses in Greece, in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece at the official rate. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 2,000 in Greek banknotes. Travelers entering Greece, other than nonresident tourists holding for- eign passports, must declare any fore ign exchange in their possession. Capital Under Legislative Decree No. 2687 of October 31, 1953, approved foreign investments in Greece that are expected to promote national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of the country may be granted preferen t ial treatment, but such invest- ments may not be repatriated earlier than one year from the date of importation or from the time the enterprise began to operate produc- tively. When any enterprise organized with foreign capital is granted 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE terms more favorable than those accorded to a similar enterprise previously established with foreign capital, equally favorable terms will be extended to the previously established enterprise, at the request of the beneficiary. Special guarantees are provided in case of requisi- tion. Law No. 4171 of 1961 provides further privileges for foreign capital invested in productive projects in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 2687. Approved foreign capital may be repatriated at an annual rate not exceeding 10 per cent. Dividends on equity capital and payment of interest on loan capital up to 12 per cent and 10 per cent a year, respectively, may be transferred free ly; however, annual earnings below these limits may be supplemented by earnings in excess of such limits f rom other years. Under Decree No. 2687, the privilege of trans- ferr ing profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all the capital has been repatriated. Under Law No. 4171 of 1961, enterprises which, under the provisions of Decree No. 2687, have invested foreign capital of not less than Dr 90 million in specified productive projects, are permitted to transfer abroad profits up to 6 per cent annually of repatriated capital, provided that the amount of profits to be remitted each year does not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise. This right does not expire a f ter repatriation of the imported capital. Deviations f rom the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining prod- ucts or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investments may also be granted preferen- tial treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Changes during 1961 March 29. An initial par value of Dr 30.00 per US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. May 10. The bilateral payments agreement with Austria was termi- nated, and transactions with that country were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. June 1. The amount in Greek banknotes which each traveler may take abroad or bring into Greece was increased from Dr 1,000 to Dr 2,000. Nonresident tourists holding foreign passports were no longer required, when entering or leaving Greece, to declare the foreign 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE exchange they had with them. Travelers holding Greek passports, but who are permanently resident abroad, were requ ired, when leaving Greece, to declare foreign exchange exceeding US$500 or its equivalent. June 8. Law No. 4171 was passed, providing, among other things, the following fu r ther privileges for fore ign cap i tal invested in pro- ductive projects in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 2687 (the value of the investment must be no less than Dr 90 m i l l ion): (1) The transfer abroad of profits in foreign exchange of up to 6 per cent annually of repatriated capital was permitted, provided that such remitted profits did not exceed 8 per cent of the earnings in foreign exchange of the enterprise. (2) Agreements for foreign loans or credits to local manu fac tu r ing or mining enterprises, the repayment of such loans, and the payment of interest thereon were exempted f rom any charges and taxes. (3) Foreign engineering enterprises were granted certain tariff and tax concessions, provided that certain specified per- centages of their personnel were Greek nationals. September 14- Decision 46600/61 changed the conditions for the import into Greece of certain articles, the most important changes being the fo l low ing: (1) The period allowed for the payment of machinery by acceptance of time d r a f ts was extended to 24 months, irrespective of va lue, instead of 6 or 15 months, as previously. (2) Letters of credit would no longer be established for an indefinite period, but only for the period of va l id i ty of licenses, for the import of goods against shipping documents. (3) Several agricultural products were transferred to List A. (4) Exemption f rom the obligation to make advance deposits could be granted by a special committee. (5) The period during which import licenses must be used was established at 15 months for certain machinery and at 9 months for all other items. (6) The time limit for the payment of advance deposits, import duties, and other charges was extended in the case of importers in the prov- inces (outside the Athens-Piraeus area) to 20 days. October 16. Under Decision 274, imports for NATO infras truc ture projects could be paid for within 6 months. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is Guatemalan Quetzal 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.0000 buying, and Q 1.0075 selling, per US$1. Guatemala has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Purchases and sales of exchange must, however, be made through banks. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed, except that all purchases and sales of exchange must be made through banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for certain commodities. Payments and transfers abroad may be made free ly through banks. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty is applied to products originating in or imported f rom countries on a special list prepared by the Govern- ment on the basis of an analytical study of foreign trade for the preceding year. As at December 31, 1961, this surcharge applied to imports from 24 countries1 and to certain textiles imported f rom Japan. This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships (except for imports from the United Kingdom). Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a few items. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control requirements, but the sale of foreign exchange must take place through a bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and receipts from transactions in invisibles are not restricted, except that purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through banks. Minor exchange transactions by tourists and other travelers are exempt from this requirement. 1 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Congo (Leopoldville), Ethiopia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Malagasy Republic, Malaya, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands Antilles (except for gasoline and other petroleum products), Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresi- dents may be made freely. Changes during 1961 February 22. Imports f rom Mexico would no longer be subject to a 100 per cent surcharge on the customs duty. March 7. It was agreed that all exports of domestic timber through the ports of Matias de Galvez and Barrios destined for eastern and northwestern ports in the United States should be transported in ships of the Flota Mercante Gran Centroamericana. September 20. Imports f rom Finland would no longer be subject to a 100 per cent surcharge on the customs duty. November 14. It was agreed that all cargo imported through the ports of Matias de Galvez and Barrios should be transported in ships of the Flota Mercante Gran Centroamericana. November 25. It was announced that the surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty on imports from the United Kingdom would apply even when such goods are carried in ships of the Flota Mercante Gran Centroamericana. December 4- It was announced that the surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty would not be imposed on imports f rom the United Kingdom if the merchandise had been loaded before November 28, 1961. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is Haitian Gourdes 5.00 = US$1. This is a un i fo rm rate, applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commis- sions. Under a law of February 22,1948, remittances abroad of amounts derived from insurance premiums are subject to a 3 per cent tax. Otherwise, Haiti has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, none have so far been imposed. A few imports are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. A few exports are subject to license. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, except for a 3 per cent tax on remittances abroad of amounts derived f rom insurance pre- miums. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds f rom invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not sub ject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the fo rm of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected f rom residents of Haiti. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place during 1961. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is Hondu ra ri Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Honduras has no- exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be pur- chased from local banks without restriction; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the bank ing system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made f r e e ly; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. All exports, re-exports, and transhipments to countries of the Soviet bloc are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. Changes during 1961 No s ign if icant changes took place dur ing 1961. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1. There is a multiple exchange rate system comprising the official rates, the free market rates, and four mixed rates, but all of these, so far as the rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. As at December 30, 1961, the rates in the official market were Is. 3%2d. buying, and Is. 21%6d. selling, per HK$1, or HK$5.65 buying, and HK$5.73 selling, per US$1; the rates in the free market on that date were HK$5.68 buy ing, and HK$5.68% selling, per US$1. The off ic ial rates are those of au thor ized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local origin, to portions of the proceeds in U.S. dollars of exports of seven commodities of local origin, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The f r ee market rates app ly to most other t ransac t ions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Forty-three banks are au tho r ized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is a part of the Sterling Area, and all settlements except those effected through the f ree market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regula- tions, as described in the following paragraphs. The proceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be obtained in any Sterling Area currency; of exports to Hong Kong's traditional trading area,1 in Hong Kong dollars; and of exports to all other countries, in 1 This is regarded as comprising Cambodia, China (Ma in land ), China (Taiwan), Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Laos, Macao, Philippines, Thailand, and Republic of Viet-Nam. 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG sterling from an External Account or in specified currency.2 However, most exports to the dollar area are not subject to prescription of currency requirements and are settled in U.S. dollars through the free market. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming payment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a specified currency.2 Payments for imports f rom the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. Imports f rom China (Ma in land ), China (Ta iwan), and Macao may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account) without exchange control approval. Imports f rom the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to Hong Kong's traditional trading area (see footnote 1) may be paid for by surrendering to an authorized bank the equivalent in U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars purchased through the free market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. Payments to or f rom the accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories, dividends and interest, or small bank charges. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are operated in the same manner as resident accounts, except that they may not be overdrawn, or debited for any payment to outside Hong Kong, without exchange control permission.3 The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts.3 These accounts may be credited with 2The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 It is also open to any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area to apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG permitted payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited f ree ly; but an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain strategic materials and for some other items from specified countries, imports are free of import license. Exchange licenses are required, even if the importer provides his own exchange, for imports from any country except from other parts of the Sterling Area, the dollar area (if paid through the free market), China (Ma in land), China (Ta iwan), and Macao. The exchange licenses are granted freely, provided that payment is made in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Foreign exchange, except U.S. dollars, to pay for imports may be obtained at the rate corresponding to the official rate. U.S. dollar exchange at this rate normally is authorized only for a few imports regarded as strictly essential; for other imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange may be obtained in the f ree market. Payments for Invisibles Exchange licenses, which are required to obtain exchange at the official rate, are granted to local residents for most transactions in invisibles. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for residents ( for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling abroad is £ stg. 250 for each person in any 12-month period. Applica- tions for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control. If exchange at the official rate is not authorized, exchange licenses may be issued upon evidence of the prior sale to an authorized exchange bank of the equivalent in U.S. dollars (which may be purchased in the free market). In any event, payments may be made freely through the f ree market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, except that the authorized exchange banks may make remittances for dividends and interest without licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain strategic goods and of a few commodities in short supply to any destination require licenses. For exports to all countries other than those in the Sterling Area, China (Ma in land), China 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG (Taiwan), the Republic of Korea, and Macao, a declaration by the exporter showing how the export proceeds will be collected must be approved by the Department of Commerce and Industry. The U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of most exports originating in China (Ma in land ), China (Ta iwan ), Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely disposable. However, portions of the U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of certain exports originating in these countries must be surrendered, viz., 50 per cent for cotton ya rn, 25 per cent for lead, silver (sub ject to prior perm iss ion), and tin, 20 per cent for copper and feathers, and 15 per cent for wood o i l; the remaining percentages may be sold in the f ree market. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports originating in other countries must be entirely surrendered. The pro- ceeds of exports to countries other than those in Hong Kong's traditional trading area and the Sterling Area must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom other parts of the Sterling Area, unless in respect of dividends or interest, require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in China (M a in l and ), China (Ta iwan ), Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official rate. Other exchange receipts f rom invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for outgoing transfers of capital in currencies other than the U.S. do l lar; these are granted at the official rate only for approved purposes or if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free market, but all receipts f rom, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, which are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1961 May 8. A new exchange control circular codified existing practices relating to the opening and operation of External Accounts. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG July 22. A new exchange control circular simplified the procedure for sales by authorized banks of exchange for imports valued up to £ stg. 10,000, and codified the existing practices relating to such trans- actions. July 26. Au thor ized banks were given permission to approve appli- cations by residents to pay for goods bought f rom countries outside the Sterling Area for sale to another country outside the Sterling Area, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations and receipt of the fu ll sale proceeds within six months. October 19. The procedure relating to export control was simplified by removing the requirement that the exporter must have his applica- tion for an export license signed by an authorized bank before present- ing it to the Department of Commerce and Industry. At the same time, the limit below which banks are not required to certify the receipt of an export payment was raised from HK$4,000 to HK$32,000. December 14. Authority was given to the authorized banks to make such payments as the following, without prior exchange control approval: transfers between authorized banks, or their branches within the Sterling Area, of banking funds or in settlement of their exchange transactions; lump payments in favor of banks in Hong Kong for bona fide family remittances, subject to a limit of HK$8,000 on each individual payment; and other payments not exceeding £ stg. 500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. December 19. To facilitate payments for imported samples, spare parts, printed matter, and other small consignments, the authorized banks were permitted to make payments for imports f rom outside the Sterling Area of a value not exceeding £ stg. 250 without specific exchange control approval, and without requiring the importer to submit all shipping documents. However, the importer must still complete an exchange license application, payment could not be made more than three months before shipment, and the bank must be satis- fied that the payment is for a bona fide import. December 19. The authorized banks were permitted to sell the basic foreign exchange allowance of £ stg. 250 to residents traveling abroad, and no longer had to refer such applications to the exchange control. They were also permitted to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents for travel abroad without exchange control authorization, against payment in foreign currencies or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars f rom an External Account. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Icelandic Kronur 43.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are IKr 42.95 buying, and IKr 43.06 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the do l lar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clear- ing accounts are fixed. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Exchange Control Territory Iceland is part of the Sterling Area —the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce has the ultimate decision on matters concerning import licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of fo re ign exchange dealings and of exchange control, and ensures that all fore ign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange besides the Central Bank. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with the seven countries with which Iceland main- tains bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as fo l lows: with Hungary, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic k ronu r; with Brazil and Poland, in sterling; with Czechoslovakia, in Icelandic kronur and Czechoslovak korunas; and with Eastern Germany, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts f rom other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars and those with most other countries, in sterling. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions usually being made in U.S. dollars or sterling. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with payments f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments "List A" goods (about 62 per cent of all imports on a 1958 basis) may be imported freely f rom all countries without quantitative restriction and without an import license. Individual licenses are required for other imports, most of which ("List B" goods) are authorized under bilateral quotas or ad hoc arrangements agreed with countries with which Iceland has bilateral payments agreements, or under global quotas applicable to imports from all other countries. About one sixth of total imports are subject to import fees of 44, 33, or 16.5 per cent,1 according to the category of the goods; imports of automobiles are subject to fees of 100 per cent or higher. In addition, about two thirds of total imports are subject to a sales tax of 15 per cent. For imports not subject to license, the importer is obliged, be fo re the goods are shipped from abroad, to arrange with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports subject to individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments, such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, 1 The basic import fees are 40, 30, or 15 per cent, to which 10 per cent is added, as permitted by the law on this subject, on account of the estimated profit margin. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND telegraphic, and telephone services; banking commissions; and bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. A number of other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents and some others are licensed freely up to established limits or subject to other limitations. Applications for exchange for all other invisibles are considered on their merits. An exchange allocation for tourism is granted up to US$182 a year, or its equivalent in other currencies, for each person. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign banknotes and coins up to the limits set by the countries to be visited. Nonresi- dents may re-export foreign banknotes and coins which they declared on entry. The export of Icelandic banknotes and coins is prohibited, except in amounts necessary to make reasonable payments aboard ships and aircraft in international traffic. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain and use their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. The import of Icelandic banknotes and coins is limited to the amount the traveler took out when he left Iceland. Capital All foreign investments in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation of nonresidents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 50 per cent. Nonresident-owned foreign capital enter- ing in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these fund s, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. In practice, the acceptance of loans exceeding 90 days is also subject to restriction. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to license. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Changes during 1961 April 7. The name "The Central Bank of Iceland" was adopted in place of the name "The National Bank, the Central Bank." The National Bank of Iceland continued to function as a commercial bank. April 18. White spirit, watch chains, and motorcycles were added to the free import list, raising the OEEC import liberalization percentage (1958 basis) to 84.6. August 4- The par value of the Icelandic krona was changed from IKr 38.00 to IKr 43.00 per US$1. September 15. New passenger cars and other motor vehicles were added to the free import list, raising the OEEC import liberalization percentage (1958 basis) to 86.1.2 October 20. The following payments for invisibles, which had been subject to restrictions or limits, would be licensed freely, subject to presentation of jus t ify ing documents: those on account of air transport, including chartering; commissions and brokerage; banking commis- sions and charges; representation expenses; business travel; and contracting carried out by specialized firms ( for construction and maintenance of buildings, roads, bridges, ports, etc.) and generally at fixed prices after open tender. 2 On January 5, 1962, a number of goods (tires and tubes for vehicles, oilskins, certain footwear, electric typewriters and parts thereof, electric bulbs, and a few others) were included in the import free list; the OEEC import liberalization percentage (1958 basis) was thus raised to 87.4. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose dealings with the general public must be effected as follows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association; in other currencies, at rates based on the fixed rates for sterling and the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of foreign currencies in the London market, and to cover their permitted trans- actions in certain currencies1 against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 As at December 29,1961, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. ^y^A. selling, per Rs 1, and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were Rs 4.7325 buying, and Rs 4.7650 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India, in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Indian Govern- ment in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area, and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries,2 and the Convertible Account group (all other countries). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There are also bilateral accounts with Burma, Pakistan, and the United Arab Republic for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Payments to and f rom Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India. Payments to and from Bilateral Account coun- tries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or sterling to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group or in any listed currency.8 Receipts from the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency,8 in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan, Nepal, and Tibet are treated as resident accounts. Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest and dividends, and other authorized payments, authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons in the same country as the account holder, proceeds of sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and proceeds of sales of sterling f rom the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports, and for other payments not exceeding Rs 20,000, to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for remittances exceeding Rs 20,000 made by Indian nationals resident in the Sterling Area for credit to their accounts in India or for payment to Indian nationals resident in India. Transfers may be made from Convertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts, and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, 8 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, Federal Republic of Germany, French Franc Area, French Somali Coast, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, United Arab Republic, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities and proceeds of small checks up to certain limits. They may be debited for such items as payments for insurance premiums, income taxes, and remittances to relatives, subject to a limit of Rs 1,000 for each transaction. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers normally are not permitted f rom non- resident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been trans- ferred abroad. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances on blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities; the income derived from such investments may normally be remitted to the owner's country, with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require individual licenses. Individual licenses may be issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period and to actual users on the basis of their current requirements. Licenses may be used to import from any country (except South A f r ica ). At the beginning of each half-yearly licensing period, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for established importers and actual users. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fulfill government contracts and for irrigation projects. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earn- ing or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remit- tances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Except for travel, insurance, and a few other items, foreign exchange is granted freely for such payments, especially for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to resi- dents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited f rom taking out l i fe insur- ance policies in fore ign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own country to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and other expenses. For Sterling Area nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, authorized dealers may allow such remit- tances by the principal member of a family, up to a maximum of £150 a month, in the currency of any Sterling Area country. Nationals of Pakistan are allowed to remit up to Rs 50 a month for the support of their dependents in Pakistan. Each application f rom nationals of countries outside the Sterling Area is considered on its own merits, and facilities are provided for the remittance of savings that the applicant may reasonably be expected to make. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual basis. Persons leaving India, except those going to Pakistan or Afghanistan, may take out Indian and foreign currency notes and coins not exceed- ing a total value of Rs 75 in any one month. Persons going to Pakistan may take out not more than Rs 50 in Indian notes and coins, and another PRs 100 in Pakistan notes and coins, on any one day. Persons leaving for Afghanistan may take out Afghan currency without limit, and Rs 50 in Indian notes and coins on any one day. Travelers are prohibited f rom taking out Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher. Exports and Export Proceeds The export licensing procedure varies according to the type of exporter, of which there are three categories: established shippers, 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA newcomers, and producers (e.g., manu fac tu re r s, m ine owners, and growers). All applicants for export licenses must submit Income Tax Verification Certificates. There are four Open General Licenses, which permit exports of certain commodities without the need for an indi- vidual export license. However, exports of some commodities are subject to quota limitations and exports of a few items are not per- mitted. Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan, Nepal, and Tibet. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currencies4 must be o f fe red for sale against rupees to an author- ized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or, in the case of sterling, he held a sterling account prior to July 8, 1947, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles in certain currencies4 must be surrendered. Travelers may, subject to customs declaration, bring in Indian currency and banknotes not exceeding Rs 100 f rom Burma and Rs 75 f rom any other country, except that one-rupee notes may not be brought in f rom Afghan is tan or Pakistan and the import of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is prohibited. Coins may be brought in without limit, except from Pakistan where the limit for Indian coins is Rs 5 a person. Special permission from the Reserve Bank is required to send Indian currency and banknotes to India. Foreign notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding duly certified declara- tion forms may sell the relevant currency notes to any money-changer or authorized dealer in fore ign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to fo rm part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible 4 The list includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies (including sterling), Djibouti francs. Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malayan dollars, Moroccan dirhams, and Tunisian dinars. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA for the same treatment as Indian enterprises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after Janu- ary 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) who emi- grate may transfer Rs 50,000 a fam i ly at the time of their departure. Any remaining assets are blocked, but remittance of income on such assets is allowed in full. Sterling Area nationals temporarily resident but not domiciled in India are permitted to repatriate their assets, including capital investments, to any Sterling Area country at the time of their repatriation. Sterling Area nationals who emigrate from India to countries outside the Sterling Area are permitted remittance facilities on the same scale as those permitted by the United Kingdom. Other nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are per- mitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to an over-all limit of Rs 125,000 for each holder, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. Any amount in excess of that authorized for f ree transfer is blocked. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations. Changes during 1961 February 6. It was announced that Haj pilgrims for the year 1961 would be permitted to take out with them special Haj currency notes up to Rs 1,200 for an adult and Rs 600 for a child between the ages of 3 and 16. (The special Haj currency notes are normally exchanged by banks in Saudi Arabia, which send them to India for credit to their nonresident rupee accounts, the balances on which are available for conversion into sterling for credit to an External Account in the United Kingdom.) 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA February 20. It was announced that the obligation of certain importers of dates to export certain other commodities was withdrawn. March 29. It was announced that imports f rom Afghanistan of dried and fresh fruits, cumin seeds, and certain medicinal herbs would be permitted by registered importers until July 31,1961, up to the amount of Rs 15,000 for each approved importer, provided that he had exported up to this amount during the 1959-60 trade agreement period. If his exports were below this figure, his entitlement would be to the extent of his exports during that period. Payments for these imports would have to be made either in accordance with certain procedures prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India, or through the Special Rupee Account of the Government of Afghanistan with the State Bank of India. March 81. The arrangement under which imports of betel nuts, cassia, cinnamon, cloves, and mace were licensed against the importer's undertaking to export a specified quantity of groundnut oil and/or tapioca flour was allowed to lapse. April 1. The import licensing policy for the six months April- September 1961 came into operation. Import quotas for 128 commodi- ties were reduced and the import of 19 other items was prohibited. On the other hand, 8 new items could be imported by actual users and 10 more could be imported under the export promotion plan. The base period on which quotas are computed was extended for 17 items and the validity period of import licenses lengthened for 16 items. The new limits were attributed not only to the shortage of foreign exchange, but also to the greater availability of products f rom domestic produc- tion. It was estimated that the new restrictions would represent a saving of some Rs 30 million in foreign exchange. August 8. North Korea was added to the list of Bilateral Account countries, and it was announced that trade with that country would now be conducted on a rupee basis only. Payments for imports from North Korea were to be made in rupees to the credit of accounts of banks in that country, and these balances would not be transferable to any other country or convertible into foreign currency. All exports to North Korea had to be registered with the State Trading Corpora- tion of India. August 18. The exchange rates for purchases and sales of sterling and U.S. dollar notes by authorized banks and money-changers f rom and to the public were fixed at approximately 3 per cent on either side of the parity relationship. Dealings in other foreign currency notes would continue to be made at rates determined by market conditions. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA October 1. The import licensing policy for the six months October 1, 1961-March 31, 1962 came into operation. Quotas for established importers were reduced or abolished in respect of 120 items, making an estimated saving in foreign exchange of Rs 10 million. October 23. The amount of Indian currency that could be taken into or out of the Portuguese territories in India was increased f rom Rs 50 to Rs 75 a person. November 19. On the termination of the bilateral payments arrange- ment with the United A rab Republic, payments between India and the United A rab Republic were placed on a convertible currency basis, with the fo l low ing exceptions: payments for exports of tea and ju te •goods to the United Arab Republic could be received only f rom an existing special account established in the name of the National Bank of Egypt under the previous (August 1959) agreement, or from special rupee accounts of the Central Bank of Egypt; the latter would be fed by payments for all imports of rice and cotton from the United Arab Republic. Balances on existing rupee accounts of Egyptian banks with authorized dealers in India could no longer be credited; they could be utilized for payments only to residents of India, but not in payment of exports of tea and ju te goods. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. The basic official rate is Rp 45.00 per US$1, on which are based the Bank Indonesia's rates of Rp 44.83125 buying, and Rp 45.28125 selling, per US$1. The Bank's buying rate applies to all receipts with the exception of receipts from foreign tourists registered with the Indonesian Travel Bureau, who receive a subsidy of Rp 45 per US$1, making an effective exchange rate of Rp 89.83125 per US$1. The Bank's selling rate applies to certain highly essential (Class A) imports and to payments for most invisibles and capital transactions. Other Class A imports are subject to a Komponen Harga levy of 25 per cent or 60 per cent, yielding effective rates of Rp 56.53125 and Rp 72.28125 per US$1, respectively. A rate of Rp 200.00 per US$1 applies to less essential (Class B) imports. Payments for certain nonessential invisibles and capital transactions are subject to a transfer tax of 100 per cent, yielding an effective rate of Rp 90.28125 per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Institute (which is under the direction of the Bank Indonesia), on whose behalf combined import and exchange licenses are issued by the Bureau of Import-Exchange Licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Bureau for Exports. Control is actually carried out by the Foreign Exchange Institute, the Bank Indonesia, the commercial banks authorized for this purpose, and the customs. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Settlements with all except bilateral countries may take place in convertible currencies. Generally, payments to dollar area countries are made in U.S. dollars and payments to the former OEEC countries are made in the currency of the country concerned or in sterling, although any import of dollar area origin may also be paid for in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Mainland China and Czechoslovakia, with which Indonesia has bilateral payments agreements, are made through special clearing accounts. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Nonresident Accounts There are two classes of nonresident account, as described in the following paragraphs. 1. Accounts of foreign banks: Balances that have been created by transferring foreign currency to Indonesia are freely convertible into the same currency and may be transferred freely to accounts of non- resident banks of the same monetary area. 2. All other nonresident accounts: The opening of these accounts and all entries require permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Institute. These accounts are designated as Capital Accounts or Income Accounts, and transfers from the former to the latter are not allowed. For nonresi- dent accounts of private persons, the authorized exchange banks have been given permission to make routine personal payments in Indonesia and yearly transfers up to a maximum of Rp 30,000 in the currency of the nonresident to the debit of his Income Account. The granting of licenses for remittances to the debit of Capital Accounts, i.e., capital remittances and remittances of inheritances, has been suspended since January 1,1954. However, in cases of destitution, transfers to the debit of Capital Accounts may be permitted up to limited amounts at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute. Imports and Import Payments Business establishments wishing to import must obtain the official recognition of the Department of Trade. Most importers are required to lodge a deposit with the Foreign Exchange Fund: for Indonesian nationals, the deposit is Rp 500,000, and for nonnationals (other than those classified as industrial or horticultural and importing goods solely for their own use), the deposit is Rp 5,000,000. After the importer has been registered, the deposit may be used to finance imports, includ- ing the payment of additional import levies. All imports require licenses, which are issued in accordance with a quarterly exchange budget. Specified goods, amounting to approximately one half of total imports, may be imported only by state enterprises. The state enter- prises also import commodities not exclusively reserved for them, so that in practice they handle approximately 80 per cent of total imports. Imports are classified in two categories, Class A and Class B. Imports in Class A—goods designated as essential—constitute 85 to 90 per cent of total imports. Except for goods characterized as basic necessities (e.g., rice), most Class A imports are subject to a Komponen Harga levy on the basic official rate of 25 per cent ( for most types of raw materials and capital equipment) or 60 per cent ( for other raw materials and certain consumer goods). Imports in Class B—goods 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA designated as less essential, mostly certain consumer goods and luxury items—constitute 10 to 15 per cent of total imports, and a rate of Rp 200 per US$1 is applied to them. Import licenses are issued only for the c. & f. value of the import; insurance has to be covered in Indonesia. A f ter obtaining the import license, the importer is required to conclude an exchange contract with an authorized bank, which then opens a letter of credit. Private importers are subject to a 100 per cent cash cover requirement against the letter of credit, except for incidental imports of essential goods and imports by industries of raw materials for their own use. Payments for imports may be made by a correspondent bank abroad only a f ter the bank has received the documents evidencing the shipment to Indonesia of the merchandise as described in the related letter of credit or the import license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles are made at the Bank's selling rate and are subject to either general or special license from the Foreign Exchange Institute. Certain specified payments considered to be non- essential (e.g., foreign travel, expenses of agents abroad, patent fees and royalties, transfers f rom nonresident Income Accounts, and private contributions to international associations not having a "humanitarian" purpose) are subject to a transfer tax of 100 per cent. General licenses are issued to the authorized banks to make payments for specified invisibles on certain conditions without further authorization from the Foreign Exchange Institute. Payments in excess of the limits estab- lished in the general licenses and payments not covered by those licenses (e.g., advertising fees, film rentals, royalties, registration fees for patents and trademarks, subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, memberships in associations, charitable remittances, legacies, and contractual amortization expenses) require special licenses from the Foreign Exchange Institute. Foreign exchange is not made available to pay insurance premiums on imports, except for some government imports with a special permit from the Committee for Insurance of the Government's Imported Goods. Under a special license, foreign nationals employed in Indonesia are allowed to remit 20 per cent of their gross taxable income for such purposes as family allowances and children's education, and as remittances of savings. In addition to this 20 per cent limit, there are annual limits of US$3,158 for each remitter for those in independent professions and US$4,210 for employed persons. A general license permits nonresidents to remit from their Income Accounts up to 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA US$667 (Rp 30,000 at the basic official rate of Rp 45 per US$1) annually (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The export of Indonesian and foreign banknotes and coins is pro- hibited, but residents going abroad are provided with small amounts of foreign banknotes to meet their traveling expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. There are no general limitations as to the destination of exports, but the Bureau for Exports will refuse to issue an export license if, for example, the shipment should not con- form to existing trade agreements. Exports of high-grade rubber, estate coffee, and tea to Singapore and Malayan ports are prohibited. Three categories are established for the purpose of setting compulsory surrender prices for the proceeds of exports. Category I covers Indo- nesia's six main export products —rubber, pepper, copra, coconut palm oil, coconut palm kernels, and sisal; for these, guide prices, which are not disclosed to the exporters, are set once a week, with the exception of rubber, for which they are set twice a week. Category II includes forestry and mining products, domestic animals, animal hides, bever- ages, tobacco and medicinals, foods tu f fs and spices, and oil fats and essential oils; for these, minimum export prices are determined and published every two weeks. Category III includes hand icraft and industrial products, plants and flowers, f ru i t, bones, tanning products, diamonds and brilliants, and animals and products not specified in the first two categories; for these, m in imum prices are set and published once a month. Exporters (with the exception of those oil companies to which special arrangements apply) are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia their export proceeds as determined by the compulsory surrender price. Foreign exchange earned by exporters in excess of the surrender prices may be used by them to pay for imports of certain goods or invisibles as specified in the regulations, provided that a license is obtained f rom the Foreign Exchange Institute. All exports, irrespective of the country of destination, must as a rule be financed by irrevocable bank credits, and the drafts drawn on such credits must be sight drafts. Exports may not be invoiced in rupiahs, but must be invoiced in a currency acceptable to the Bureau for Exports. Under a special scheme, exporters f rom certain coastal regions of Sumatra may retain abroad 30 per cent of their proceeds f rom exports of goods to Singapore and Malaya for importing specified commodities. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all fo r- eign exchange to which they become entitled. Foreign nationals resident in Indonesia may retain all income not arising f rom foreign trade. The import of Indonesian banknotes and coins is prohibited. Foreign banknotes may be imported on condition that they are surrendered to an authorized exchange bank at the rate fixed by the Foreign Exchange Fund. However, visitors planning to stay in Indonesia no longer than 90 days may, af ter a record has been made, retain their fo re ign currency and take it with them on departure or sell it to an authorized bank at the Bank's buying rate plus a subsidy of Rp 45 per US$1. They may exchange only the following currencies and only with an authorized bank: U.S. banknotes (in denominations not exceeding $50) and U.S. travelers checks; sterling banknotes (in all denominations) and sterling travelers checks (payab le outside the Sterling A r e a ); Malayan banknotes (in denominations not exceeding M$10); Austral- ian banknotes (in denominations not exceeding £A 2 5 ); and bank- notes of the Federal Republic of Germany (in denominations of DM 5, DM 10, DM 20, DM 50, and DM 100). Capital There are no limitations on the remittance to Indonesia by non- residents of capital which, if it were in the fo rm of foreign exchange, would have to be surrendered in accordance with the regulations. All incoming and most outgoing capital transfers are made at the Bank's buying and selling rates. A few capital payments that are deemed non- essential, e.g., transfers f rom nonresident Capital Accounts, are subject to a transfer tax of 100 per cent. For the purpose of determining the treatment to be given them, companies operating in Indonesia with foreign capital are classified in three groups, as described in the following paragraphs. Group I, also known as "old, active companies," includes invest- ments in Indonesia before January 1, 1954 in companies registered abroad, as well as investments in companies which, although they are registered in Indonesia, are owned by one or a few foreigners residing abroad. This group is divided into two categories: Category 1 a. Estates b. Mining c. Industry a. Transport and com- munications b. Energy c. Other industries d. Printing Category 2 e. Banks f. Development g. Foreign trade h. Domestic trade 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Twenty per cent of net profits (a f ter payment of the corporation tax) on investments in this group must be deposited in rupiah accounts as reserve profits and the remaining 80 per cent may then be used as follows: In Category 1, it may all be transferred abroad at the Bank's selling rate; in Category 2, 60 per cent may be transferred abroad at the Bank's selling rate and the remaining 20 per cent retained for private use in Indonesia. The reserve profits may be used for certain purposes, such as reinvestment in the companies concerned or in certain Indo- nesian enterprises, subject to approval by the Bank Indonesia. Amortization allowances and proceeds from liquidation of investments in Group I are placed in Capital Accounts, transfers from which have been suspended since January 1,1954. Enterprises which formerly were in a third category are now classified in Group III (see below). Group II, also known as "new investments," comprises foreign capital invested in Indonesia since January 1, 1954. These investments are subject to conditions agreed between the Indonesian authorities and the interested parties. In general, companies in this group benefit from more favorable treatment than that accorded companies in Group I. Most companies in Group II are exempt from the reserve profits requirements applied to Group I; and, as a m in imum, they are entitled to the same treatment as that accorded to companies in Group I. Transfers of profits and authorized repatriation of capital by "new investments" are made at the Bank's selling rate. Group III includes foreign investments in Indonesia belonging to categories 1 and 2 of Group I, but which are not entitled to transfer profits because they are registered in Indonesia or are not owned by one or a few foreigners residing abroad. This group is allowed to transfer dividends on behalf of shares held abroad. If no direct transfer of dividends is granted, the proceeds of dividend coupons may be credited to nonresident Income Accounts of the foreign owners, balances on which are transferable up to an annual maximum amount (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). For foreign capital invested under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law of September 16, 1958, profits may be transferred entirely and capital repatriation may be allowed in the currency of the original investment, a f ter the business has been in operation for a specified period of time to be decided by the Council for Foreign Capital Investment. Residents are required to surrender exchange from capital, and approval is not normally granted to them for capital payments abroad. Residents may trade in the D jakar ta market in registered foreign securities, inc lud ing registered bonds and shares, obligations, bank 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA mortgages, profit-sharing certificates, and similar securities, coupons, and dividend warrants. Residents may also trade in unregistered securities, provided a nonresident does not benefit thereby, directly or indirectly. Nonresidents are permitted to trade in specified domestic securities, provided the proceeds of any sale are credited to a non- resident Capital Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The import of foreign securities into Indonesia is subject to license, the issue of which is subject to a special import levy of 33% per cent of the current domestic market value of the security. The proceeds of this levy are payable to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Imported securi- ties representing the reinvestment of securities exported from Indonesia are exempt f rom this levy. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 30, 1961) (rupiah per t/jS. dollar) Buying 44.83125 (Bank's Buying Rate)1 All receipts except from foreign tourists. 89.83125 (Bank's Buying Rate Rp 45 Subsidy) Receipts from foreign tourists. Selling 45.28125 (Bank's Selling Rate)* Imports (Class A) of goods for "basic needs." Government payments for debt service. Capital and invisibles not sub- ject to the transfer tax. 56.53125 (Bank's Selling Rate plus 25% Komponen Harga Levy) Imports (Class A) of most types of capital equipment and raw materials. 72.28125 (Bank's Selling Rate plus 60% Komponen Harga Levy} Imports (Class A) of certain consumer goods and raw materials. 90.28125 (Bank's Selling Rate plus 100% Transfer Tax) Specified nonessential invisibles and capital payments. 200.00 (Special Rate) Imports of Class B (less essential) goods. 1 These rates of the Bank Indonesia are based on the basic official rate of Rp 45.00, less % of 1 per cent on the buying side and plus % of 1 per cent on the selling side. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Changes during 1961 April 4- Certain commodities were reclassified in d ifferent import groups or classes, the net effect being to increase the percentage of commodities paid for at the more depreciated rates. Certain items, such as watches, cameras, and carpets, that were previously prohibited were permitted to be imported at the Rp 200 rate. May 2. A subsidy of Rp 45 per US$1, applied to the official buying rate, was established for sales of exchange by foreign tourists registered with the Indonesian Travel Bureau. June 1. Exports were divided into three categories for the purpose of setting compulsory surrender prices (known as price targets or guide prices) for export proceeds. For Category I, export prices were set once a week —with the exception of rubber, for wh ich the price was set twice a week. For Category II, m in imum export prices were set once every two weeks. For Category III, prices were set once a month. Exporters were permitted to retain exchange earned in excess of the surrender prices and to use it in various ways laid down in the regulations. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Iranian Rials 75.75 = US$1. All transactions take place at the rates fixed by the Bank Markazi Iran: Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. There are charges on the invoiced amount of all imported goods of % of 1 per cent for sanitary services and %0 of 1 per cent under the law on encouragement of exports. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central b ank ). Import licenses are issued by the customs authorities and exchange licenses by the Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The Ministry of Commerce determines the classification of imported and exported commodities. Prescription of {Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one in which the Bank Markazi deals, or in sterling or U.S. dollars. Alternatively, payment may be made in a currency acceptable to both countries. Transactions with countries with which Iran has payments or clear- ing agreements must be conducted in the currencies specified in the agreements: U.S. dollar accounts are used for transactions under the agreements with Hungary and Turkey; the Swiss f ranc is specified in the agreement with Czechoslovakia, sterling in the agreement with Poland, and the rial in the agreement with the U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only for payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Except for personal belongings, goods imported must, in general, be new and unused. Exchange for imports is allocated freely, except for commodities included in a list of prohibited imports and for a list of "nonessential" 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN items for which no exchange is provided. For the Iranian year 1340 (March 21, 1961-March 20, 1962), a global quota of Rls 30 billion has been established for imports which are not prohibited and are not on the list for which no exchange is provided. The regulations provide that, should the Bank Markazi decide that the foreign exchange reserves of the country are not sufficient for the import of all authorized goods, the Ministry of Commerce, with the cooperation of the Bank, will draw up a list of essential goods, which will receive priority in the provision of foreign exchange. If the quota established is exhausted and foreign exchange is available, additional exchange will be provided by the Bank Markazi with the agreement of the Ministry of Commerce. For 15 categories of imports, which are considered essential, payment may be made against documentary letters of credit or bills for collection. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. Minimum deposits of 25-70 per cent are required when letters of credit are opened. Specified commodities, such as sugar, silkworm eggs, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly, although special permits to import these commodities may be issued to private traders or institutions. Imports from Eastern Germany are also under state monopoly. Gold may be imported only by the Bank Markazi. Certain goods may be imported only with the consent of appropriate Iranian ministries. Tea may be imported only from producing countries which have trade agreements with Iran. Except for a few commodities which may be imported freely, imports from Japan are dependent on the amount of exports to that country. Import licenses, which are required to clear goods through customs, are issued automatically by the customs authorities on receipt of documents showing that payment has been or will be made through an authorized bank. The customs authorities check that the imported com- modity is not on the prohibited list, and customs clearance of a list of items is subject to payment of specified commercial profit taxes. Authorized banks may make payments against shipping documents for imports that are not prohibited and which are not on the list for which no exchange is provided. Charges are levied on the invoiced amount of all imported goods of % of 1 per cent for sanitary services and %o °f 1 per cent under the law on encouragement of exports. Persons holding their own exchange are permitted to use that exchange for imports of goods for which exchange could be provided by the authorized banks, provided they pay the above charges and Rls 1.50 per US$1 of the import value to an authorized bank; importers of certain items are exempt from the Rls 1.50 per US$1 charge. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Payments for Invisibles Payments for noncommercial purposes require licenses issued by the Bank Markazi, except that certificates in support of foreign travel must be obtained from an appropriate committee. Foreign travel is permitted only for educational, medical, and business purposes. The annual travel allocation is limited to £ stg. 175 for travel in Europe and US$500 for travel in the United States, although additional amounts are sanc- tioned to cover genuine medical expenses. Travelers may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Nonresident travelers may not export foreign currency in excess of the amounts they imported less the amounts they have sold to author- ized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, purchase up to US$50, or the equivalent in other currencies, for traveling expenses, upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian imports; but for imports covered by documentary credits, the insurance must be taken out in Iran and the exchange granted must be used for this purpose. For imports made against sight d ra f ts, however, the c.i.f. value of the goods may be transferred to the exporter abroad. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities, including grain and flour, are subject to license. Export proceeds, up to the amount of the export value as appraised by the customs authorities, must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within eight months after the export takes place. Authorized banks accept export proceeds in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Export proceeds in other currencies may be used to purchase imports payable in the same currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts derived from invisibles must be surrendered unless used to import goods. Travelers to Iran are permitted to bring with them unlimited amounts in foreign currencies and Iranian banknotes, but the repatria- tion of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Travelers of Iranian nationality must either sell their exchange to authorized banks or deposit the funds in a temporary foreign exchange account, 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN from which transfers abroad or to nonresident accounts will require a license from the Bank Markazi. Other travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Except as noted below, transfers of capital abroad require the approval of the Bank Markazi, which is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the law concerning the encouragement and pro- tection of foreign capital investment in Iran (1955) and the regula- tions implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved devel- opment or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the fo rm of foreign exchange and/or goods; transfers of exchange must be made in the original currency and at the commercial selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. Capital imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be in a currency acceptable to the Bank Ma rkaz i; exchange is converted into rials at the commercial buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The Bank Markazi has the option to buy the exchange, or to accept it as a deposit to be converted into rials, at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement; in this case, the rate applicable to repatriation is that mutually agreed rate. The law guarantees legal protection for foreign capital invested in accordance with its provisions and for the profits thereof, and provides for a committee to make recommendations on proposed investments to the Council of Ministers. Changes during 1961 March 5. Only 13 items of au thor ized goods could be imported on the basis of bills for collection; f or other commodities, letters of credit had to be opened, with various minimum deposits depending on the importance and necessity of the goods concerned. March 16. The maximum value for imports and exports of authorized goods by any inhabitant of the frontier regions was fixed at Rls 10,000 a year. March 26. The general regulations for imports and exports for the Iranian year 1340 (March 21, 1961-March 20, 1962) were published. The number of prohibited items was increased and the commercial profit tax on some items was raised. Imports of 214 items regarded as semiessential, nonessential, or luxury were prohibited. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN May 7. The issuance of letters of guarantee in fore ign currencies, the issuance of letters of guarantee in any currency against the guarantees of foreign banks, and the granting of credit facilities in rials against the guarantees of foreign banks were prohibited. June 18. The import of prohibited goods was no longer possible, even if no transfer of foreign exchange abroad took place. October 4- Two items were transferred from the list of prohibited imports to the list of commodities which could be imported with bills for collection (see March 5, above). October 15. Except for a few commodities which could be imported f ree ly, imports from Japan were made dependent on the amount of exports to that country. December 3. The import of gold, except by the Bank Markazi, was prohibited. All banks in Iran were required to sell immediately to the Bank Markaz i, at the off ic ial price, all gold bars held by them either in Iran or abroad. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi Dinar 1 — US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are effected in any of the listed currencies1 or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. The official rates for the U.S. dollar as at Decem- ber 30,1961 were US$2.808125 buying, and US$2.7995 selling, per ID 1. There is a small free market (mainly in banknotes) in Iranian rials and Saudi Arabian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control, and has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the Directorate of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce is the licensing authority for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,1 or, under bilateral payments agreements,2 in dinars through the appropriate clearing account. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires approval of the exchange control. Transactions permitted in convertible currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and UJ3. dollars. 2 Iraq has bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, and ^r ' ' 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Imports and Import Payments An annual program based on the anticipated needs of the economy and other considerations (e.g., protective reasons and exchange avail- abilities) establishes the total value and composition of imports. All imports from Israel and imports of 49 items from all other countries are prohibited. Imports are licensed up to the limits of the quotas established in the annual program, on the basis of imports in previous years, for each commodity or a group of commodities, the quotas for construction equipment, industrial machinery, and building materials being relatively large. Import licenses are valid for imports from all countries except France (unless specially authorized) and Israel. Only licensed importers and contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Government may import; they are divided into groups according to the category of imports in which they spe- cialize. New importers who meet the requirements can also be granted import privileges. The licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in certain cases where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. or a c.i.f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Exchange is provided for the trans- fer of interest and profits if the amounts applied for are considered reasonable. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. For tourist travel, there is a basic yearly allowance for each person of ID 200. Exchange to meet the costs of business travel is subject to administrative approval. Travelers may take out ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out ID 150 in Iraqi notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and to France, and exports of certain goods to all other countries, are prohibited. Specified exports (e.g., certain 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ kinds of livestock, certain foods tuffs in short supply, cereals and fruits, and raw materials in short supply) may be prohibited, and some of these (e.g., wheat and certain fruits) may be exported only if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricultural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must undertake to repatriate the foreign exchange proceeds through a bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Pilgrims return- ing from Saudi Arabia may bring in ID 150, and other travelers ID 15, in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is per- mitted. Foreign investment in Iraq is perm i t ted freely, and exchange is provided for the repatriation of reasonable profits upon submission of an audited earnings statement and proof that local taxes have been paid. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to admin- istrative checking. Imports of capital f rom Israel are prohibited. All transfers of capital abroad require exchange control approval. The transfer of capital abroad by residents is not allowed. Under the Industrial Development Law (No. 31 of 1961), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption f rom income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by mach ine; (2) the number of non-Iraqi workers and employees (excluding Palestinian Arabs) does not exceed 10 per cent of the total staff employed, excluding essential technicians; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power- generating plant, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab partici- pation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process sem imanu- factured products into finished products, including assembly. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Changes during 1961 March 27. Exchange Control Law No. 19 of 1961 replaced Exchange Control Law No. 18 of 1950, as amended. All regulations, instructions, and notifications issued under the previous law remained in force unless they were in conflict with the provisions of the new law. Two notifica- tions defining the terms "resident" and "nonresident" and establishing general rules for dealings between residents and nonresidents were issued. April. The import program for 1961 established a list of 49 com- modities or groups of commodities excluded from import; imports of all other commodities ("allowable imports") were placed under quo ta; and imports under unlimited allocations of exchange were discontinued. Importers whose imports did not exceed the value of ID 1,000 in 1960 were deprived of import privileges. All other importers were divided into groups according to the category of imports in which they specialize. June 11. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel was reduced f rom ID 300 to ID 200 a person. July 25. Under Amendment Law No. 46 of 1961 to Industrial Devel- opment Law No. 31 of 1961, capital from other A rab countries invested in specified enterprises was granted the same treatment as that given to domestic capital invested in such enterprises. August 2. Exports of dates by sailing boats to countries of the Arabian Gulf (except Iran) were exempted f rom exchange control formalities. Exports of dates and other goods to Saudi Arabia and Iran by their nationals in Iraq for provisioning were also exempted f rom such formalities. September 1. New exchange control instructions became effective, rep lac ing previous instructions. The p r inc ip le of external convertibility was adopted. Payments permitted for the import or export of goods into or f rom Iraq, and also payments in respect of other current trans- actions and of capital transactions which the Central Bank of Iraq has agreed to let licensed dealers make or has authorized them to make, could be made in any listed currency (see footnote 1) or in Iraqi dinars through a nonresident account. The collection of a com- mission on exchange transactions was no longer required. September 1. The amount of fore ign banknotes that could be taken out of Iraq by travelers was reduced f rom the equivalent of ID 25 to the equivalent of ID 15. The amount of Iraqi notes that pilgrims to Saudi Arabia could take out and br ing back was reduced f rom ID 160 to ID 150. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ December 9. The right to use the foreign exchange proceeds of exports of dates to Pakistan to pay for imports was canceled. December 20. The bilateral payments agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic was terminated, and transactions with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Irish Pound 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Department of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to com- mercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The Irish Republic is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in a Sterling Area currency without formality. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-sterling currency. Pay- ments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any speci- fied currency.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Blocked Accounts (see be low ), are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-sterling currency sold by a nonresident to an authorized bank. Balances on these specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents, or con- verted into any non-sterling currency. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are due to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Green- land, Norway, and Sweden, and are not eligible for transfer. These funds arise f rom such sources as the sale of Irish securities, proceeds f rom sales of real estate exceeding £1,000, and the Irish estates of persons who at the time of death were resident outside the Sterling Area. Funds in these accounts may be invested through the stock exchange in Irish or sterling securities which cannot be redeemed within five years f rom the date of investment. They may also be used for expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly during visits to Ireland and for the upkeep of the account holder's property in Ireland. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be transferred freely to other Blocked Accounts in Ireland or in the United Kingdom. Imports and Import Payments The import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of adminis- trative control. Under the first type of control, covering only a limited range of commodities for protective purposes, imports of certain com- modities are subject to quota restrictions which, with minor exceptions, are on a global basis. Individual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quan t i ty of goods imported. All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the second type of control, the prior permission of the Department of Finance is required be fo re orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months a f ter the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automati- cally. Exchange control forms are required for import paymen ts exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to persons resident outside the Sterling Area require approval. Authority to make payments for most invisibles has been given to the authorized banks. Approval to make payments for other invisibles is given by the Department of Finance. There is a basic allowance of exchange for tourist travel of £250 for each person for 12 months. Allowances for business travel are 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND made available up to a limit of £2,500 for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved provided no unauthor- ized export of capital is involved. Not more than £50 in Sterling Area notes or £250 in other currency notes may be taken out of the country to a destination outside the United Kingdom. There is no restriction on the amount of banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area are required to obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in specified currencies, the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if specified currencies are received they must be sold to an authorized bank. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications by emigrants are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a fam i ly; those from other persons are considered on their merits. Incoming capital received in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank; certain capital receipts in foreign currency may be invested in securities payable in that cur- rency, provided the investment is carried out within six months from the date of receipt through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. Changes during 1961 February 7. Exchange control fo rms were no longer required for import payments not exceeding £2,000 (previously £500) to countries outside the Sterling Area. June 29. The limits up to which the authorized banks could grant exchange for business travel were increased from £20 to £30 a day, up to a total of £2,500 for each journey (previously, the limit was £1,800 for each jou rney ). The authority of the authorized banks to approve applications for exchange for certain other purposes was also increased. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Israel Pounds 3.00 = US$1. This rate applies to all exchange transactions except those related to certain transactions in securities, to which a small premium applies (see section on Capital, below). Administration of Control Exchange control is exercised by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with coun- tries with which payments agreements are in force2 are usually made in U.S. dollars as an accounting unit, or in sterling. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either as foreign currency accounts or as local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account f ree ly; when in Israel, he may convert balances on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts— for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for others —which may be used only with special approval; and (2) Blocked Accounts, which may be used for investment in Israel securi- ties, for the purchase of real estate, for the payment of property taxes payable by the account holder and, if the account has been held for at least one year, for tourist expenses in Israel up to I£100 a day for the account holder and the same amount for each member of his family, and for remittances of up to I£2,500 to relatives who are resi- dents of Israel. Balances on Blocked Accounts may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but such accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them 1 In view of certain changes which took place early in 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at March 14, 1962. 2 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL abroad against foreign exchange. Blocked Accounts are opened for the holding of funds derived from former investments or funds transferred to Israel at the official rate of exchange; other nontransferable funds are credited to Registered Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports require individual licenses. All import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. For many commodities, import licenses are issued automatically upon application. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Exchange to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the import license may prescribe whether the fu ll amount of foreign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the credit, and if it is not trans- ferred abroad immediately, it must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until such transfer is made. Where payment is being made on a cash-against-documents basis, 20 per cent of the value of the import has to be deposited in a special (WAPA) account at the Bank of Israel before a license may be issued; the balance on this account is used subsequently to purchase foreign exchange to cover the payment. An importer who utilizes normal bank credit facilities of 30 to 180 days must, at the time of opening the credit, deposit through his bank with the Bank of Israel 40 per cent of the cost of the goods. Government agencies and imports for export are exempt from these advance deposit requirements. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. There is an annual exchange allowance for each resident of US$30 for the purchase of books, membership dues, etc. Residents intending to travel abroad may claim an allocation equivalent to US$250 a traveler in each calendar year. Not more than I£50 in Israel banknotes, in denominations of less than I£10, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of If 900. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most exports except those by the central marke t ing boards, which operate under open general licenses. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exports to certain clearing countries are not permitted unless the value added domestically is at least 20 per cent. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange as time deposits (PAZAK accounts). Con- vertible currencies —but not clearing currencies —received from abroad may be deposited in these accounts and may be exchanged into Israel currency at the rate prevailing at the time of the exchange. One fou r th of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments may be retained in TAMAM accounts (see section on Capital, below) and up to three fou r ths may be deposited in PAZAK accounts. For a period of ten years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury or depositing them in PAZAK accounts, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I£50 in Israel banknotes, in denominations of less than I£10, may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) are permitted to draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families, provided that they have held the account for one year or more. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the official rate. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment can, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Invest- ments of August 16, 1959, which permits a nonresident who has made an approved investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal annual installments. If the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be w i thdrawn in stages within a period of ten years f rom the date it was originally made. An investment kept for ten years or more may be withdrawn immediately. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Foreign investments e f fec ted in Israel without taking advantage of the 1959 law do not benefit f rom these t rans fer privileges, but most old investments have in fact been recognized as approved investments. Interest and dividends on bonds or shares registered on the stock exchange which have been purchased by nonresidents with exchange converted at the official rate may be transferred abroad in foreign currency at the official rate; this applies also to amounts received through sales of such bonds and shares. Payments due to nonresidents and not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered Accounts or Blocked Accounts. Proceeds accruing f rom the repatriation or liquidation of fore ign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds f rom invisibles. New imm igran ts may, for ten years f rom the date of first entry, retain their fo re ign assets without declaring them and use these assets free ly. T rans fe rs abroad of a capital na tu re by residents are generally not perm i t ted. Holders of TAMAM accounts (wh i ch are credited with one f o u r th of the fore ign exchange received by residents as restitution paymen ts) may use them to pu rchase abroad, for themselves or the ir families, fo r- eign securities quoted on an off ic ial stock exchange and, subject to submission of evidence to the au thor ized bank maintaining the account, for specified current transactions. Foreign securities purchased by debiting a TAMAM account may be sold abroad for foreign currency and the proceeds again credited to a TAMAM account, or the securities may be sold to other residents in a free securities market in which there is a premium on the price of the security calculated at the o f f ic ial market rate. Changes during 1961 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Iceland was terminated. February 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Finland was terminated. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Norway was terminated. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1962: February 9. A m a j or re fo rm of the exchange system came into effec t. The multiple currency practices were e l im ina ted, except for the use of the securities free market as a channel for investment and to assist 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL holders of TAMAM accounts. At the same time, the par value of the Israel pound was changed from LE1.80 per US$1 to I£3.00 per US$1. March, The bilateral payments agreement with Uruguay was terminated. March 14* The basic annual exchange allocation for Israel tourists going abroad was increased from US$150 to US$250 a traveler. 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Italian Lire 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for most externally convertible European currencies2 vary between limits resulting f rom the lira rate for the U.S. dollar in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies in their respective countries. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange trans- actions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and Western European currencies. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not exercised over payments from the Italian Republic to the Republic of San Marino or the Vatican City. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with fore ign countries may be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, including lire on Foreign Accounts. Certain payments may, however, be settled only in lire through Capital Accounts. All settlements with Somalia must be made in lire through a special centralized account. 1 In view of a change which took place on January 2, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. They are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Nonresident Accounts The main types of account in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts, for current transactions and Italian investments abroad, and Capital Accounts, for foreign investments in Italy. The use of these accounts is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with t rans fe rs f rom other Foreign Accounts or f rom Capital Accounts, with authorized current payments and approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds of sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account or Capital Account, and for payments to residents of Italy for current transactions and the disinvestment of Italian capital abroad. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts and f rom other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign- owned personal property and real estate in Italy. They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or Foreign Account and for the purchase of investments. There is a special centralized account for transactions with Somalia. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports from the former OEEC countries, dollar area countries, and most other countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc are free of quantitative restriction. The few commodities still subject to individual license when imported f rom these countries are shown in two lists: Tabella A Import ( for the dollar area and a few other countries)3 and Tabella B Import ( for the former OEEC and certain other countries) .4 A third list, Tabella C Import, lists those commodi- ties which require an individual license when imported from Sino- Soviet bloc countries and a few others.5 Other separate lists indicate 3 Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China (Taiwan), Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, French Somaliland, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Syrian Arab Republic, United States and possessions, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 4 The former OEEC countries and their associated territories, Afghanistan, Congo (Leopoldville), Ethiopia, Finland, Iraq, Nepal, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Viet-Nam, and Yemen. 5 Sino-Soviet bloc countries, Argentina, Iran, and Israel. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY those commodities which may be imported freely from specified countries.6 These general permissions do not apply to imports from Japan or Somalia if the payee does not reside in the respective country, or to imports from the United Arab Republic if the payee does not reside in that country or in one of the former OEEC countries. Imports not covered by these general permissions are subject to individual license. For imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 500,000 in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account. Inter- national postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to wh ich this service is provided. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities; under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may grant foreign exchange freely, provided the necessary documents are submitted. Examination of these documents is, in a few cases, carried out by the Italian Exchange Office. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on investments in Italy in productive enterprises (see section on Capital, be low ). Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each country. As a rule, when the cost of insurance premiums is being met by Italian exporters or importers, payment to domestic or foreign insurance companies operating in Italy is in l i re; premiums may be paid in fore ign exchange or in lire credited to a Foreign Account only for goods arriving in Italy or being sent out of Italy the insurance on which has been stipulated by contractual agreement with an insurance company chosen by the seller or buyer abroad. Certain transactions in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry and Trade: (1) contracts involving residents of specified countries for the 6 Albania, Argentina, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Iran, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. In addition, there are separate lists for Japan and Yugoslavia indi- cating the goods that require ind iv idual import licenses. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY chartering of ships or of nonurgent repairs thereto, for the production of films, for insurance for civil liability, etc.; (2) whenever the con- tracts exceed certain amounts, for the purchase of material by pub- lishers, information agencies, etc., for copyrights, and for services of professional workers, entertainers, and athletes; and (3) other trans- actions not permitted by general authorization. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 for each trip for tourism, business, and education; larger amounts can be granted by the banks in particu- lar cases, account being taken of the economic situation of the applicant as well as the duration and purpose of the trip. Any person traveling abroad may take with him Lit 50,000 in Italian banknotes, and if he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, he may take an additional Lit 500,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds A few commodities listed in a special table (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control fo rm is requ ired; for exports from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in value, a fo rm completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 500,000 in value, an export document com- pleted by an authorized bank is required. Exchange receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within seven days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in fore ign exchange accounts for six months, during which such balances may be used for permitted transactions or sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for au thor ized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Exchange Office or among them- selves. A f ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Exchange Off ice at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in M i lan and Rom e ). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts f rom exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Capital In accordance with the provisions of Law No. 43 of February 7,1956, the repatriation of capital invested in the establishment or expansion of productive enterprises and the transfer of income thereon are not restricted. For other registered investments, the original capital may be repatriated a f t er a m in imum period of two years. All other foreign capital may be repatriated freely through Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Italian companies may freely take up participations in foreign companies and purchase foreign shares, provided that such invest- ments are in their lines of business and are intended to facilitate the expansion of the firms' activities abroad. Residents may make other investments in countries of the European Economic Community in accordance with the Community's program of liberalization of capital movements (d irect investments and their liquidation, movements of personal cap i ta l, short-term and medium-term commercial credits, e tc . ). In add i t ion, specified financial institutions may buy and sell stocks and bonds issued and payable ab ro ad; and all residents, w i thout distinction, may buy and sell bonds issued by international financial organizations in which Italy participates as a member country. Other investments abroad by residents are subject to approval, which is granted only when such investments are considered economically advantageous. The export of securities is not permitted, except of those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or Capital Account. Banknotes Residents are authorized to receive foreign banknotes f rom non- residents as g if ts or in payment for goods sold and services rendered to tourists dur ing their stay in Italy. Banknotes so acquired must be sold to an authorized bank within seven days. A bank abroad may remit Italian banknotes to authorized banks in Italy for credit to its Capital Account. Authorized banks may deal among themselves or with the Italian Exchange Office in foreign banknotes, sell foreign banknotes to residents traveling abroad or investing overseas, or export foreign banknotes for credit or for exchange into U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies. Changes during 1961 January 1. Global quotas were established for 1961 for cer ta in com- modities still subject to restriction when imported f rom EEC countries. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY February 26. Specified Italian financial corporations were authorized to buy securities quoted on the stock exchange of any country. March 13. Settlements with the Portuguese Monetary Area were placed on a convertible currency basis as a result of the termination of the bilateral payments agreement. June 27. Imports from the dollar area and certain other countries were further liberalized. As a result, Tabella A Import (covering imports from those countries) included only 13 agricultural products and 10 industrial items not on Tabella B Import (covering imports from the former OEEC countries and certain others). August 22. A separate list was applied to imports from Yugoslavia, and Tabella C Import ceased to be applicable to that country. August 25. The list of imports from Japan requiring an individual license was shortened considerably. November 28. Entities domiciled in Italy, other than financial insti- tutions (see February 26, above), were given permission to buy bonds of companies domiciled in countries of the EEC, provided that the transaction is permitted by their charters and the bonds are issued by companies established for the same purpose as the corporation making the purchase and are included in the lists published by stock exchanges or related institutions.7 December 5. Residents could buy bonds issued by international financial institutions in which Italy participates as a member country. NOTE.—On January 2, 1962, a ministerial instruction of Decem- ber 29, 1961 came into effect. Among other things, transfers could now be made freely between the Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts of nonresidents; thus the f ree exchange market for transactions related to Capital Accounts was absorbed into the official exchange market. As a result, there was no longer a need to use foreign banknotes for capital transactions. At the same time, Foreign Accounts could be used for authorized capital transactions of residents and Capital Accounts could no longer be used for current transactions or for the negotiation of foreign banknotes. 7 On March 7, 1962, this facility was extended to the purchase of bonds of companies domiciled in OECD countries and their related monetary areas. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Japanese Yen 360.00 — US$1. The official rates of authorized banks for telegraphic transfers in U.S. dollars are main- tained between official limits of ¥ 358.20 buying, and ¥ 361.80 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control A Ministerial Council, whose main function is to establish the foreign exchange budget and approve its revision, is the highest control authority on the policy level. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) carries out exchange and trade control policy in respect of merchandise transactions and nonmerchandise transactions incidental thereto. The Ministry of Finance, through its Foreign Exchange Bureau, carries out policy in respect of prescription of currency and method of settlement, the operations of the foreign exchange fund, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Ministry of Finance also has the fun c- tion of determining exchange rates. The Bank of Japan, as the Govern- ment's agent, executes the above functions in part. Authorized banks carry out the controls on the technical and administrative level. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries except the Republic of Korea, North Korea, and Mainland China may be made in any currency, and receipts therefrom may be obtained in any of the designated receivable cur- rencies,2 receipts in other currencies requiring an individual license. Settlements with these countries in yen must be made though a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Payments to and f rom the Republic of Korea are made through accounts established under the bilateral pay- ments agreement with that country, but incoming payments from Korea may also be accepted in any of the designated receivable currencies. 1 In view of certain changes which took place on January 16, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 In addition to yen, the designated receivable currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Nonresident Accounts There are four main classes of nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Free Yen Accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds from sales of designated receivable currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, and with other authorized payments. Yen on these accounts may be exchanged into any other currency. However, there are some restric- tions on crediting nonresident earnings to these accounts. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. Proceeds f rom the sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates sold within two years from the date of validated acquisition are deposited in these accounts. Transfers to other Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized freely, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident. 3. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. To facilitate the application of exchange control, nonresidents are authorized to keep deposit accounts with banks in the designated receivable currencies. 4. Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Certain proceeds of foreigners7 liquidated investments may be placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to individual import license, but in practice 70 per cent of imports (excluding governmental imports) are liberal- ized. Most of the authorized imports are covered by the exchange budget and are communicated to the public through announcements made by the trade control authorities. There are different licensing procedures for imports requiring payment abroad: (1) Under the foreign exchange fund allocation system (covering imports of most foods tuffs and some raw materials and other essentials), the importer must first obtain from the trade control authorities an allocation of foreign exchange. If the allocation is granted, the importer receives an exchange allocation certificate which entitles him to receive an import license f rom an authorized bank automatically upon application. Exchange allocation certificates for commodities (except rice) under this system are issued on a global 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the automatic f u nd allocation system, allocations of foreign exchange for specified categories of imports are granted automatically and without restriction by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, unless it is considered that the import of a certain item would be h a rm f ul to domestic producers. (3) tinder the automatic approval system, imports are, in e f fec t, f ree f rom quantita- tive restriction, since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely by the authorized banks on application, up to the total amount appropriated for the system in the exchange budget, and additional amoun ts are provided if the original appropria- tion has been exhausted. All items subject to the automatic approval system may be imported f rom any country. The value of imported goods must be paid by one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally, to be paid upon or after receipt of shipping documents or receipt of the goods in Japan, or within the period f rom the date of receipt of the goods to four months after customs clearance). When the proposed payment for an import is not in accordance with the standard methods of settlement, prior approval of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry must be obtained. This Ministry also issues import licenses for special trans- actions, such as imports without exchange. In general, applicants for import licenses must lodge a deposit in cash3 with an authorized bank, which must redeposit it at the Bank of Japan; the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent, 5 per cent, 10 per cent, or 35 per cent of the value of the intended import, according to the goods to be imported ( for imports from the Ryukyu Islands, the deposit is l/io of 1 per cen t ). The deposit is returned af ter 80 per cent of the licensed goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The per- centage of the deposit can be increased or decreased or suspended temporarily by the Minister of International Trade and Industry. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, and for certain trans- actions are subject to individual license. Payments related to fore ign trade, i.e., freight (except a few items), insurance, and other incidental costs, are approved automatically. Payments designated by the 3 The deposit for imports of goods for which the deposit is 1 per cent (except ma jor generator equ ipmen t) or for imports f rom the Ryukyu Islands may be made in securities. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of International Trade and Industry as having no significant effect on the balance of payments and involving no danger of capital flight —such as medical expenses and a reasonable amount for living expenses of relatives, subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, donations, and expenses for travel abroad for a specific purpose (but payment for these items is limited to actual expenses or to specified amoun ts ) —a re either f ree f rom restriction or subject only to approval by the authorized banks. Where a license for a contract has been granted, any payment arising f rom the contract is authorized automatically by an authorized bank. Under the standard method of settlement, payment for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receiving the service, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out freely fore ign curren- cies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank certification"), in order that the requirements concerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods sub ject to the fo l low ing restrictions: restrictions on strategic goods to control their export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple food- stuffs) ; restrictions on goods likely to be exported at undu ly low prices (e.g., pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and certain textiles); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., restrictions on exports of certain textiles to a number of countries). Barter exports, exports under processing contracts, and exports to be settled by a nonstandard method also require individual approval. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must in general be settled by draw ing a bill of exchange payable w i th in 5 months a f t er sight or within 6 months a f ter shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days f rom the date of acquisition. However, trading concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and/or sterling from exports and invisibles for a maximum of 20 days; during this period they may use the exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles or sell it to the banks for yen. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts by the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under the standard method of settlement for invisibles, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months af ter, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for specified services are subject to indi- vidual license, e.g., services between residents which give rise to foreign claimable assets, and services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method. Receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to fac i l i- tate payments for current invisibles, specified residents (shipping companies, etc.) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts with banks in the designated receivable currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950). All acquisitions of stocks, debentures, benef ic iary certificates, and claims in the fo rm of loans by foreign investors are subject to ind iv idual license if a guarantee for remittance of income or principal is desired. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are generally approved up to 15 per cent of the stock of any corporation not classified as a restricted industry and up to 10 per cent of the stock of any corporation classified as a restricted industry.4 All these acquisitions must be made against the yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months f rom the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as the yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan: proceeds f rom the redemption a f t er ma tur i ty of debentures, benef ic iary certificates, or claims in the fo rm of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in the fo rm of loans; distributed profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts f rom technological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. 4 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other transportation, electric and gas utilities, and banks, 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign invest- ment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. For the purpose of facilitating new foreign investment, the fo l low ing two formulas have been established: (1) Since July 21,1959, applicants have been able to obtain "conditional approval" under the Foreign Investment Law for a foreign investment in Japan. For investments so approved, the remittance of principal and earnings is guaranteed, subject to the condition that the Government can temporarily defer the remittance if Japan's balance of payments situation so requires. (2) A "prior designation" procedure under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law has also been operative since July 21,1959. For a foreign investment so designated by the authorities at the time the investor acquires an equity investment (stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates) or concludes a technological assistance con- tract, the remittance of earnings and principal will be automatically approved, subject to the condition that the remittance can be deferred temporarily if Japan's balance of payments situation so requires. Proceeds of liquidated stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates may be remitted after two years f rom the date of acquisition. Proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates sold within two years from the date of acquisition are deposited in Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts, balances on which can be transferred to another nonresident in return for foreign currency. Rights to the allotment of newly issued stocks may be sold if the issuing company gives its consent, or the value of the rights can be realized by selling the stocks with rights and purchasing the same stocks without rights or purchasing other stocks. (This constitutes a preferential treatment of foreign investors since, under the Japanese commercial code, the right to the allotment of newly issued stocks may not be sold.) Investors who obtain a license or approval to acquire an equity investment with yen f rom a Nonresident Yen Deposit Account may have the income remitted and the principal credited to a Nonresident Yen Deposit Account. All other capital transactions and transfers hav ing an exchange control aspect are subject to individual license, although in practice, for most transactions, an exchange license is not required for foreign investment in Japan if the investor desires neither remittance of income or principal nor credit to a Nonresident Yen Deposit Account. Transfers of capital abroad and investments abroad by residents are subject to approval. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Changes during 1961 January 4- Restrictions on the following remittances for invisibles were removed: subscription fees for newspapers, books, fees for inspec- tion, analysis, etc., up to US$200 per application; living expenses up to US$500 per applicant in one year; and medical expenses for relatives or employees up to actual costs. January 25. Raisins were added to the list of items which could be imported under the au toma t ic approval system. February 2. Remittances of dividends on stocks acquired by non- residents before the end of World War II with domestic means of payment could be made freely. April 1. Remittances of proceeds from sales of stocks acquired by nonresidents before the end of World War II with domestic means of payment could be made with the approval of the Bank of Japan. April 1. The list of items which could be offset through accounts maintained between a firm's branch office and its head office abroad was extended and remittance of the balances on such accounts was permitted up to a fixed amount. April 1. Imports of 660 items, including raw cotton, raw wool, ordinary steel products, galvanized iron sheets, buses, and radio sets, were liberalized by transferr ing them from the foreign exchange fund allocation list: 530 items to the automatic approval list and 130 items to the automatic fund allocation list. This raised the import liberaliza- tion (on the basis of imports in 1959) to 62 per cent. April 10. All countries except North Korea were removed from the list of barter trade countries. May 1. Transfers between nonresidents of balances on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts were permitted. May 1. Proceeds from sales of Japanese stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates acquired with foreign currency in compliance with the Foreign Investment Law could be remitted a f ter two years f rom the date of acquisition. Where such sales were made w i th in two years of acquisition, the proceeds would be deposited in Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These proceeds could be repatriated by trans- ferring the balance to another nonresident in exchange for foreign currency. The proceeds of debentures hav ing two years or more to maturity when purchased, if acquired with f u n ds f r om these accounts, could be remitted abroad on redemption. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN May 1. The granting of exchange for travel abroad was further liberalized: the maximum period for business travel was increased f rom 60 to 120 days and the authorized banks were empowered to approve exchange applications by students and professors studying abroad within a fixed term and amount. May 11. Remittances of income on equity investments acquired with yen from a Nonresident Yen Deposit Account could be made freely, subject only to approval by the authorized banks. June 1. An additional 128 items were placed on the automatic approval list: 103 items, mainly chemicals, were transferred f rom the exchange fund allocation list, and 25 items, mainly specified iron and steel products, from the automatic f u nd allocation list. June 10. Payment of freight on imports (except petroleum and coal) would be subject only to the approval of an authorized bank, if the contract is for only one voyage. Payments for port disbursements, claims, agents' fees, etc., were further liberalized. June 27. Various bonds, such as long-term or short-term govern- ment bonds, local government bonds, bonds of public corporations or public organizations, bank debentures with coupons, and discount financial bonds, could be treated in almost the same way as corporate debentures. June 27. Remittances of interest on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts would be subject only to approval by the authorized banks. July 1. The remaining discrimination against the dollar area was removed by the liberalization of imports of soybeans and refined lard. Also, several items, including oilseed cake, meal, benzol, certain types of agricultural machinery and appliances, and instant coffee, were added to the automatic approval or automatic fund allocation lists. September 1. The period of settlement under the standard method of settlement for exports was extended to within five months a f ter the importer had sighted the export bill or within six months a f ter ship- ment. (The previous period was within three months a f ter sight or f o ur months af ter shipment.) September 18. The advance deposits for imports (1 per cent) were generally increased as follows: to 5 per cent for imports of most raw materials and machinery; to 10 per cent for imports of office machines', and to 35 per cent for other categories. Deposits had to be made in cash and deposited with an authorized bank for redeposit with the Bank of Japan; in a few cases, deposits could be made in securities. September 26. A new program for the liberalization of trade and exchange was adopted, aimed at increasing the liberalization ratio 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN to 68 per cent by October 1, 1961, 70 per cent by December 1, 1961, and 90 per cent by October 1, 1962. It was also announced that it was intended to reduce as much as possible the various procedural require- ments attached to importing and to place the remaining restricted items on a "negative list" by April 1, 1962, if possible. September 80. The bilateral payments agreement with China (Taiwan) was terminated, and settlements were placed on a convertible currency basis. October 1. The import of 500 items was liberalized by transferring them from the exchange fund allocation list: 350 items to the automatic approval list and 150 items to the automatic f u nd allocation list. This raised the liberalization percentage to 68. December 21. Forty import items, inc lud ing oatmeal, woolen yarn, and special types of steel, were added to the automatic approval list, and 130 items, including certain types of mach ine tools, wax, and home electrical appliances, to the automatic f u nd allocation list. This brought the liberalization percentage to 70. NOTE.—The following changes became effective on Janua ry 16,1962: The limitation on the currencies which may be used for outgoing pay- ments was discontinued. The exchange control regulations for trans- actions in invisibles were codified, and some 30 notifications of the Ministry of Finance were integrated in a "Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Control of Invisible Transactions." The period of settlement under the standard method of settlement for invisibles was clarified. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Jordan Dinar 1 = US$2.80. The official rates for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. Rates for other currencies are based on the rates in the London market. Fees of 4 per cent for goods paid for at the official rate and % of 1 per cent for goods imported without exchange are payable on import licenses. A fee of % of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved for sales of exchange for invisibles, except education expenses and remittances by government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Currency Control Depart- ment of the Ministry of Finance under the direction of the Controller of Currency, pend ing the establishment of a central bank, which will take over these func t ions. Import policy is formulated by an Import Committee, wh ich is composed of the Controller of Imports, the Undersecretaries for National Economy and Customs, the Controller of Currency, the Director of Income Tax, and two persons representing the Chambers of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Controller of the Import Department of the M in is try of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is f inanced in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area (except for imports of certain commodities from Ind ia )2 may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling or Jordan dinars to an External Account, or in currency appropriate to the country of residence of the beneficiary and/or the country of origin of the goods. Proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be collected, and sur- rendered whe re required, as follows: f rom residents of the Sterling Area, 1 In view of cer ta in changes which took place early in 1962 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at February 16, 1962. 2 Under a trade agreement with India, the rupee proceeds of sales of Jo rdan phosphates to India may be used only to pay for approved imports from that country. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN in sterling or Jordan dinars from a nonresident Sterling Area Accoun t; from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in sterling or Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account or in any specified currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Currency, author- ized banks may open nonresident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate fund s. The approval of the Controller of Currency is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers f rom resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated nonresident accounts, transfers f rom External to Sterling Area Accounts, and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items3 and all imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of industrial machinery require the approval of the Ministry of National Economy. Imports of fru i ts and vegetables are exempt f rom licensing requirements. All other imports, except those covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country, require import licenses. A fee of 4 per cent is payable on licenses for imports paid for in nonresident account dinars or foreign exchange. A fee of % of 1 per cent is payable on licenses issued without exchange (e.g., for samples, household effects, charitable donations in k ind ). Licenses for imports originating in Arab League countries are valid for 4 months and those for imports originating in other countries for 6 months.4 For the latter, the importer must open a letter of credit within 45 days of the date of issue of the license and must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. If the importer chooses to pay against documents, the requirement that he open a letter of credit is dispensed with, provided that the goods are shipped within 3 months of the date of issue of the license. 3 Cement (except white cement), carbonic acid, arak, nonalcoholic drinks, ciga- rettes, diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses, and diesel engines for conversion of petrol-driven vehicles. 4 The Arab League countries are Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya. Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, and Yemen. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. A fee of Y2 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved for pay- ments abroad for all invisibles except expenses for education and remit- tances by government departments and certain other approved institutions. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to refugee depend- ents; reasonable living expenses of Jordan nationals abroad; expenses of Jordan residents traveling abroad; expenditures for education; expenses of medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. Although the policy in respect of these payments is, in general, not discriminatory, there are certain variations reflecting the d ifferent conditions in var ious foreign countries. Thus, for tourist travel the allowance is JD 12 a day for travel to the United States and JD 8 a day for travel elsewhere, for one month in any one year. For business travel to the United States the exchange allowance is JD 16 a day, and to other countries JD 12 a day, for up to three months in any one year. For travel to Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic, there is no allowance of foreign exchange but residents of Jordan and nationals of Lebanon or Syria traveling to these countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jordan notes and coins. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 25 in Jordan notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency; in addition, they may take out foreign currency notes previously brought into the country by them. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding JD 20 must be collected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. Proceeds f rom exports of vegetables, fruits, and other perishable commodities to certain neigh- boring countries are exempt f rom the surrender requirement. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in convertible currencies, including sterling, must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a maximum of JD 100 in Jordan currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Capital Capital may be imported f ree ly, but exports of capital require approval. Current income arising f rom nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Capital Investment, effective May 1, 1955, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted regularly, without any limitation, in the currency of the original investment. After one year, repatriation of the capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same fore ign currency as the original investment. The Govern- ment may approve more liberal provisions upon application. Changes during 1961 January 23. Goods originating in or shipped f rom all countries other than Lebanon and the Syrian Region of the United Arab Republic could be paid for in foreign exchange at the official rate. (Previously, payments for goods originating in or shipped f rom an Arab League country could be made only at the free market rate.) February 5. It was announced that certain goods could be imported only f rom the United States. April 17. Goods originating in and imported f rom the Syrian Region of the United A rab Republic could be paid for in sterling at the official rate. (Previously, these payments could be made only at the f ree market rate.) November 16. The amount of Jordan currency notes which could be brought in by persons entering the country was raised to JD 100 (previously JD 25, except for persons entering from the Syrian Arab Republic and Lebanon, where the limit was JD 100). The amount of Jordan or foreign currency notes that persons leaving Jordan (other than for travel to Syria or Lebanon) could take out was increased from JD 5 to JD 25 (or the foreign currency equivalent). The exchange allowances for tourist and business travel were raised. December 5. Payments for goods originating in and imported f rom Lebanon, as well as payments to the Syrian Arab Republic and Lebanon for invisibles, could be made in sterling at the official rate; previously, these payments could be made only at the free market rate. The proceeds of exports and invisibles received from these two countries had to be surrendered in sterling or Jordan dinars f rom a nonresident External Account, or in any specified currency; previously, such proceeds could be received in any Arab League currency and sold in the free market. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1962: January 1. Diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses, and diesel engines for conversion of petrol-driven vehicles, were added to the list of prohibited imports. February 16. The provisions of Defense Order No. 8 of 1961, under which the import of certain commodities was restricted to those of U.S. origin, were canceled. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Hwan has been established with the Fund. All transactions take place at a flexible rate, called the banking rate, which consists of two components: a fixed basic rate of hw 1,250 per US$1, and a certificate rate (the certificates themselves are no longer issued) which may be varied from time to time by the Monetary Board of the Bank of Korea. The certificate rate as at December 30, 1961 was hw 50 per US$1, making the banking rate hw 1,300 per US$1. Most exports receive subsidies, which are fixed by administrative decree in terms of hwan per U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Korea (the central bank ), which is the only authorized exchange bank in Korea and through which all exchange transactions must pass. Exchange control regulations are issued by the Monetary Board of the Bank and by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance reviews demands for and supplies of foreign exchange and instructs the Bank of Korea to sell foreign exchange for imports. The Bank of Korea controls receipts and payments related to invisibles, and has been given authority to control imports under the automatic approval procedure and exports. Certain imports and exports must be approved by appropriate ministries. Prescription of Currency Proceeds from exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, Japanese yen, deutsche mark, or any other currency authorized by the Bank of Korea. The methods of payment for imports and other purposes are prescribed through licensing or through conditions attached to sales of exchange by the Bank of Korea. There is a bilateral payments agreement with Japan under which— except in certain cases, e.g., exports of rice and imports of food —settlements with Japan must be made through a bilateral clear- ing account; however, exchange earnings received af ter February 2, 1961 in any currency may be used to pay for imports from Japan. Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea. Remittances f rom such accounts and withdrawals in the fo rm of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA general, be made freely. However, the approval of the Governor of the Bank of Korea is required for remittances f rom balances that have accrued f rom remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Monetary Board (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom ab road ). Otherwise, the deposits may be disposed of only by sale to the Bank of Korea at the prevailing banking rate. Imports and Import Payments Only registered traders are allowed to import; the requirement for maintaining status as a registered importer is a certain minimum va lue of annual exports or imports. Import commodities are divided into two categories: automatic approval and permission required. The Bank of Korea licenses the automatic approval items freely, provided that the importer applies for a letter of credit and complies with the "check price" system established by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. All other authorized imports require indi- vidual licenses f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. In general, the fo rmer procedure applies to essential goods and the latter to less essential goods. All imports f r om communist countries, and certain imports f rom all other countries, are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles All remittances abroad to pay for invisibles require approval. The export of Korean currency notes and foreign currency is prohibited, but departing foreigners may reconvert unused hwan notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, and they may take out any foreign exchange that they had registered on their entry into Korea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain specified goods—such as tobacco, raw cotton, raw hides, precious metals, certain ores, minerals, and chemicals, bituminous coal, cement, pulp, and lumber —and all exports to com- munist countries are prohibited. Most goods may be exported freely under an automatic approval procedure, but exports of certain goods require the authorization of the ministry concerned. The fore ign exchange proceeds of exports must be sold to the Bank of Korea at the bank ing rate. Most exports receive subsidies, which are fixed f rom time to time by administrative decree in terms of hwan per U.S. dollar (see section on Changes dur ing 1961, September 22 and December 30, be low). Exporters may apply to the Bank of Korea for subsidy payments only a f ter receipt of the export proceeds. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived f rom invisibles must be sold to the Bank of Korea at the banking rate. The import of Korean currency notes is prohibited. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, which must be declared upon entry. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Changes during 1961 January 1. The off ic ial exchange rate was changed f rom hw 650 to hw 1,000 per US$1, and fore ign exchange taxes were abolished. February 2. The Korean Government announced a new exchange system. The previous mu l t ip le currency practices were abolished and a flexible rate, called the banking rate, would hencefor th apply to all transactions. The banking rate would consist of two components: a fixed basic rate of hw 1,250 per US$1, and a certificate rate which could be varied f rom time to time by the Monetary Board of the Bank of Korea. The certificate rate was fixed initially at hw 50 per US$1, mak ing the initial bank ing rate hw 1,300 per US$1. All foreign exchange being held by residents on Import Accounts, General Accounts, etc., had to be surrendered to the Bank of Korea at hw 1,300 per US$1. All foreign exchange acquired subsequently by residents had to be surrendered to the Bank of Korea at the banking rate and the Bank would issue to them exchange certificates entitling them to repurchase foreign exchange to the total amount shown on the certificate at the banking rate prevailing at the time of the surrender. February 16. Exchange acquired by those acting for foreign airlines, shipping companies, or insurance companies, and which was to be remitted abroad, had to be deposited in a resident account, and its disposal required the permission of the Bank of Korea. Remittances from nonresident accounts if the funds had accrued f rom remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Monetary Board, but excluding exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad, were also made subject to the permission of the Bank of Korea. June 80. The retention quota system for export proceeds was abolished. Under the foreign trade program for the second ha lf of 1961, only exporters with recorded annual exports valued at US$10,000 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA or more, and suppliers of goods to United Nations Forces under offshore procurement arrangements, were permitted to import goods in the permission-required category. July 29. A law was promulgated under which the Minister of Finance could impose special customs duties to restrict the import of nonessen- tial and luxury goods. These duties would be imposed on the basis of the c.i.f. value of the import converted at the hw 1,300 per US$1 rate. The Minister was empowered to classify goods for this purpose in four categories, subject to rates of 100, 50, 30, and 10 per cent, respectively. August 1. The Bank of Korea discontinued the issuance of exchange certificates against the surrender of foreign exchange, and would henceforth sell exchange for all authorized purposes without requesting the surrender of certificates. August 24- The import commodities subject to special customs duties and their respective categories (see July 29, above) were announced. Four items were assigned to the second category (50 per cent d u t y ), 14 items to the third category (30 per cent d u t y ), and 16 items to the fourth category (10 per cent du ty ). September 22. The Ministry of Commerce and Indu s t ry established f o ur specific subsidy rates for private exports effected between August 1 and December 31, 1961: (1) hw 250 per US$1 for Special Category items, comprising new exports (i.e., commodities which have not been sold abroad since January 1, 1954) and re-exports from bonded factories; (2) hw 200 per US$1 for Category I items, comprising exports on a commission (consignment) basis, exports to new markets, and 32 commodities listed in Annex I of the Ministry's order; (3) hw 150 per US$1 for Category II items, comprising 44 commodities listed in Annex II of the Ministry's order; and (4) hw 100 per US$1 for Category III items, a residual group of commodities not inc luded in the first three categories. December 80. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced that, for the purpose of granting subsidies on export earnings, the commodity classifications had been increased from four in the previous program (see September 22, above) to five under the trade program for the first half of 1962. These classifications and the corresponding subsidy rates were as follows: (1) new exports and re-exports from bonded factories, hw 250 per US$1; (2) 17 items, hw 200 per US$1; (3) 30 items, hw 150 per US$1; (4) 37 items, hw 100 per US$1; and (5) 4 items, hw 50 per US$1. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 80 — US$1. The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars and French francs, at the following rates: K 80.00 buying, K 80.35 selling, per US$1, and K 16.21 buying, K 16.40 selling, per NF 1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these two currencies. No limitations apply to transactions in other currencies.1 Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required. Certain imports are prohibited for reasons of public order. Payments for imports may be made freely.1 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are free of license. There are no exchange surrender requirements; exporters may retain their export proceeds or sell them. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely,1 and no exchange surrender requirements are applied to proceeds f rom invisibles. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported and imported freely. Capital Foreign investment in Laos is not subject to any exchange control requirements. There are no l im i ta t ions on the rem i t tance of p ro f i ts or the repatriation of capital. Changes during 1961 January 5. Convertibility of the kip, which had been suspended temporarily as of August 9, 1960, was restored. July 5. Laos became a member of the International Monetary Fund. 1 On January 5, 1962, convertibility of the kip was suspended Exchange would be granted only in respect of essential imports. temporarily. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System The par value is Lebanese Pounds 2.19148 = US$1; however, no transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Practically all transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 30, 1961 were LL 3.02 buying, and LL 3.0225 selling, per US$1. Under an agreement with the United Arab Republic, a special rate of LL 8.00 = LE 1 is applied to exchange purchased f rom Egyptian tourists. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements spec ify ing the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods f rom any source and all imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities (dried milk, wheat, barley, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, etc.) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to license. Licenses are granted for six months, and may be renewed for an addi- tional six months (or longer, for imports of industrial mach inery). All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained f ree ly through the f r ee market. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained free ly through the f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, copper, lead, and tin) to any country and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of a few items—such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, jute goods, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, cement, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural mach ines and equip- 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON ment, and certain metals —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea are sub ject to export license. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the f ree market. Changes during 1961 A revised list of imports sub ject to license was issued in February, and var ious add i t ions were made to it dur ing the year. April 15. Import and export licensing was simplified. Hencefor th, only one import license covering the total quantity of commodities to be imported du r ing the year would be issued to each importer, enabling him to import all in one shipment or in successive shipments during the year. The same procedure was applied to the licensing of exports. April 28. Revised regulations on the period of validity of import licenses were issued. Licenses must be collected f rom the issuing authority within three months, or they would be canceled. They would be valid for six months, and could be extended for an additional six months if written request was made be fo re the expiration date. For imports of indus tr ial mach inery, the expiration date could be fu r ther extended. April 28. The special rate applied to purchases of exchange from Egyptian tourists was changed f rom LL 7.75 to LL 8.00 per LE 1. October 18. Industrial machinery, which formerly could be imported by direct end-users only, could now be imported by merchants in their own name and stocked and offered for sale by them, provided that they undertook not to sell or deliver the imported machinery to others without the written consent of the Ministry of National Econ- omy, and that applications for licenses for such imports were accompanied by a bank guarantee amounting to 25 per cent of their cost. Breach of either of these conditions would result in a loss of the right to obtain import licenses for three years, and fo r fe i tu re of the bank guarantee. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA * Exchange Rate System The Liberian Dollar is at par with the U.S. dollar. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage in silver and copper. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f r om nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items require prior licenses. A permit is required f rom the Secretary of the Treasury for the import of currency into Liberia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, except for precious metals and precious stones. The surrender of the proceeds f rom exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the c i rcu la t ion of U.S. banknotes in denom ina t ions over $20. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts or payments. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place dur ing 1961. 1 Liberia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on March 28, 1962. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The par value is Libyan Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Libyan pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rates for the U.S. dollar as at December 31,1961 were US$2.803%2 buying, and US$2.802%2 selling, per £L 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by a consultative Import and Export Council, under the chairmanship of the Minister of National Economy and comprising officials of the Ministries of National Economy and F inance, the chief financial off ic ia ls of the Provinces of T r ipo l i tan ia, Cyrena ica, and the Fezzan, and officials of the Na t ional Bank. Prescription of Currency The United Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Sterling Area, and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Settlements with coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be settled in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Libya has a trade and payments agreement w i th the United Arab Republic, under which settlements are made through a centralized bilateral clearing account ma in ta ined in sterling. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the approval of the National Bank of Libya, nonresidents may open accounts with any authorized bank in Libya, in either Libyan or foreign currency. The accounts in Libyan pounds of residents of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Territories Accounts, and of residents of other countries, External Accounts (the only exceptions being blocked accounts or accounts to which special pro- cedures app ly ). Transfers may be made free ly between Scheduled Territories Accounts, between External Accounts, and f rom External 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Accounts to Scheduled Territories Accounts. Funds held on Scheduled Territories Accoun ts may be converted into sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Funds held on External Accounts may be converted into any foreign currency, including sterling. With approval of the exchange control authority, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya, up to £L 500 a year, to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittance to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to £L 1,000 in a calendar yea r; for remittance in case of hardsh ip; and for investment in property in Libya or in other Libyan enterprises. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qua l i fy for remittance in f u ll to the owner in his coun try of permanent residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports do not require an ind iv idual import license. Imports subject to ind iv idual license include processed food s tu f f s, goods that are manufac tured locally, and several revenue-producing commodities. Imports of a few goods from all countries, and all imports f rom Israel, are prohibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses. These are granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Remittances in respect of other invisibles are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20, and residents may in addition take without a license, in any period of 12 months, fore ign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of £L 140 as a basic travel allowance. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one ha lf of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for all commodities. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Exports to Israel are prohibited. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the National Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan notes may be repatriated through banking channels, provided that details are given to establish that the notes were obtained from bona fide travelers from Libya within the authorized amount. Capital Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 30, 1958, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Residents of Libya taking up permanent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to £L 5,000 for a family. Nonresident capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Changes during 1961 November 1. The amount of Libyan currency notes that could be taken in or out of Libya by a traveler was reduced f rom £L 50 to £L 20. The basic travel allowance of foreign exchange for residents traveling abroad was increased from £L 100 to £L 140 per adult. December 15. The Libyan-Italian property agreement expired (see Twelfth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, page 230, sections on Capital and Changes during 1960). 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Malayan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The Malayan dollar has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling based on M$l = 2s. 4d. Rates for U.S. and Canadian dollars, applica- ble both to merchandise transactions and to transactions in invisibles, are fixed by the Exchange Banks Association of the Federation of Malaya on the basis of the rate abroad for sterling and U.S. dollars. As at December 30, 1961, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.04 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank Negara Tanah Melayu (the central b ank ), on behalf of the Treasury. However, much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import controls are adminis- tered by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency The Federation of Malaya is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency that is freely offered and free ly transferable to Malaya. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency sold to a bank in Malaya, with transfers of Malayan dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresi- dent, and may be converted into any foreign currency. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYA Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific license, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. As an anti- dump ing measure, specific licenses are required for imports of sugar. A few imports are controlled for health, security, or moral reasons, and certain conditions must be satisfied be fo re licenses are issued. Imports of pou l try f rom Thailand are controlled under a quota system. Imports of cer ta in textiles f rom Ma in land China are prohibited as an anti- dump ing measure. All imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of rice are conditional on the importer purchasing a m in imum of one ton of rice f rom official stocks for every ton imported. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made f ree ly. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries are in general authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements permit fam i ly remittances to Ma in land China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 f rom a fam i ly in any one month. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given free ly. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Ma layan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in foreign banknotes may be taken out of Ma laya by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Only exports to countries outside the Sterling Area exceeding M$20,000 in va lue, and exports to Indonesia of gold, p la t inum, precious stones, rubber, t in, and cigarettes, require the approval of the exchange control authorities, to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accord- ance with the prescription of currency regulations and that the fo re ign exchange proceeds are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are in general the same as those for proceeds of exports. Travelers coming direct from Singapore, North Borneo, Sarawak, or Brunei may bring in any amount in Malayan notes, and other travelers may bring in 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYA M$500. Otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malayan notes and of currency notes of India and Indonesia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital, profits, and dividends within the Sterling Area. Control over the entry of capital (as distinct f rom cash balances) f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area is applied as follows: (1) Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been submitted to and approved by the exchange control authorities are not restricted. (2) Investments in existing Federation securities are normally permitted, provided that the securities are purchased through a recognized stock exchange and the investment funds are remitted through banking channels. The repatriation to countries outside the Sterling Area of initial capital and appreciation is permitted only for projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities a f ter January 1, 1950. The proceeds realized f rom investments in recognized marketable securities are not remittable and must be deposited in a blocked account, except that remittances f rom Malaya to the Scandinavian countries by Scandinavian nationals in respect of their own assets are permitted freely on application. Changes during 1961 February 23. Discrimination against imports f rom Argentina was dropped, and such imports were accorded the licensing treatment given to most other countries. May 24. The restriction on imports of Thai currency notes was removed. November. Imports of rice were made conditional on the importer purchasing a minimum of one ton of rice f rom official stocks for every ton imported, instead of for every two tons, as previously. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is Mexican Pesos 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buying, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rates on December 29, 1961 were Mex$12.49%6 buying, and Mex$12.49% sell- ing, per US$1. There are no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, but payments to Spain, with which Mexico has a payments agreement, are subject to restrictive licensing. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with the payments agreement between the Bank of Mexico and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, payments for transactions with Spain are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through a special account. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Payments for imports f rom Spain are recorded through a special account. For a considerable number of items, a prior import license must be obtained f rom the Ministry of Industry and Trade before firm orders are p laced; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restric- tion. Imports of certain goods (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radios and television sets, equipment, machinery, and whisky, wines, and other liquors) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of specified commodities (mainly cotton) of an equivalent value. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to the prior approval of the Committee of Public Sector Imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Transactions with Spain are recorded through a special account (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The contracting of insurance with foreign companies for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with branches of foreign companies estab- lished in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require export licenses. No exchange control require- ments apply to the proceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements apply to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1961 On various dates du r ing the year, additions to and removals from the list of items subject to restrictive import licensing were made. February 7. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia expired. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is Moroccan Dirhams 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French f r anc is fixed at DH 1.025 per NF 1. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the other currencies it negotiates1 are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. do l lar as at December 30, 1961 were DH 5.0115 buying, and DH 5.0366 sell- ing, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under bilateral pay- ments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset the ir fo re ign exchange transactions with their private customers. The au tho r i z ed banks must sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the b a l a n ce of th e ir pu rchases and sales in each cu r rency; compensa t ion be tween banks is not pe rm i t ted, so that no foreign exchange ma rket exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of fo re ign currency in the Paris exchange market. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued either by the Ministry of Com- merce or by its provincial delegations; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Off ice. Prescription of Currency Morocco is one of the territories of the French Franc Area. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into four groups: (1) the French Franc Area; (2) the bilateral group, compris- ing countries with which France has concluded bilateral payments agreements on behalf also of Morocco;2 (3) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with wh ich Morocco maintains bilateral 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, D j ibou ti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Hungary and Rumania. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO payments agreements;3 and (4) the area of convertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that area, or in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Settlements with the bilateral group may be made in either dirhams or French francs through a Foreign Account in Bilateral Dirhams related to the country with which the settlement takes place. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the bilateral accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in currencies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made either in one of the currencies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident account are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements between residents of Morocco and residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. In addition, they may be credited freely with proceeds from sales to the Bank of Morocco of currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area or of convertible currencies, and with proceeds f rom sales of banknotes issued in other countries of the French Franc Area. They may be debited freely for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for resi- dents of countries in the area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles), and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies negotiated by it, excluding bank- notes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco, purchases 3 Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Poland, Spain, U.S.S.R,., and United Arab Republic. There is also an arrangement with Cuba by which the latter undertakes to reserve two thirds of its receipts from exports to Morocco to purchase Moroccan goods. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO from the Bank of Morocco of the currencies negotiated by it, excluding banknotes, and for transfers to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dirhams. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the bilateral group (see footnote 2 ). They are used for settlements between Morocco and the country of residence of the account holder, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Accounts of the Bilateral Payments Agreement Countries are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains its own bilateral pay- ments agreements (see footnote 3 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds which may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the bilateral group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to shares with a fixed long-term or short-term yield issued by a Moroccan entity; for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; and to pay for the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. All other operations through Capital Accounts are subject to individual license. 6. Tourist Accounts are designed mainly for the deposit of Moroccan banknotes held by nonresidents. 7. Nonresident Internal Accounts are intended mainly for foreign persons staying temporarily in Morocco or for Moroccan residents staying temporarily abroad. They may be used only for certain collec- tions and certain payments in the French Franc Area on behalf of the account holder. No transfers are permitted between Nonresident Internal Accounts. 8. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Imports and Import Payments All imports, except those made through the post, must be domiciled with an authorized bank, which may make payments for imports upon submission of the required documents. With certain exceptions, a 25 per cent advance deposit must be made by importers at the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay half the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury. For most imports from other parts of the French Franc Area, the transaction must be domiciled one month before importation takes place. For imports f rom other countries, the transaction must be domiciled as soon as it is known that a foreign payment will have to be made. The fo l low ing are exempt f rom the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports financed with U.S. a id; imports from countries in the payments agreement group; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is re funded when the import has taken place and payment is being made, or if the license is not used. Imports from other parts of the French Franc Area do not require an import license; but for certain imports for which there are pro- tective quotas, "quota certificates" are required. Payments for these imports may be made freely, subject to the presentation of an "import commitment" (engagement d'importation) to the authorized bank with which the transaction is domiciled, one month before the actual importation. This period of one month does not apply to imports of certain essential commodities nor to government imports. Imports made and settled th rough postal channe ls are exempt f rom these requirements. Imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to individual license. Imports from countries in the area of convertibility are licensed under global quotas, some of wh ich may be increased if it is considered necessary. Imports from countries in the bilateral group or the payments agreement group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) and under compensation arrangements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Off ice upon presentation of the necessary jus t if ica t ion. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import documents. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Earnings on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are freely transferable to the investor's country of residence. Some payments are subject to limitations: A foreign employee may transfer abroad 50 per cent of his wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 500 a year is granted for tourist travel; this can be increased by DH 250 in Spanish currency if the tourist travels through Spain. For business travel, an allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 250 is granted for each trip; additional personal allocations may be granted according to need. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange of up to DH 500 is granted. For fam i ly maintenance, there is a monthly alloca- tion of DH 250. Travelers may take with them DH 300 in Moroccan banknotes for each trip, in addition to the exchange allocation. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, but for a few, export licenses are required. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. Exporters are given 30 days to collect the proceeds and, in the case of exports to outside the French Franc Area, an additional 30 days to surrender the exchange to the Bank of Morocco. Exporters may retain 8 per cent of their proceeds in currencies other than those of the French Franc Area in EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used to pay commissions to nonresident representatives and agents, advertising costs, premiums for transport insurance, transport expenses, export duties, and consular fees; to pay for imports of raw materials, equipment goods, and other goods intended exclusively for the firm that holds the account, provided that a license is granted; and for business travel, subject to a maximum of DH 250 for each trip. The use of balances on EFAC accounts for other purposes requires authorization. Every six months, 50 per cent of the outstanding balance on each EFAC account must be surrendered to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and companies established in Morocco must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only when 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO they do not arise f rom current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. Domestic and foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign- held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents is subject to approval. Exchange is allocated to emigrants and repatriates up to DH 35,000 a person, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco are subject to approval of the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tar iff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds f rom liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The guarantee of repatria- tion is transferable between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresidents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. All transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as their import and export, are subject to approval. Changes during 1961 January 1. The law instituting a new currency unit, the dirham, entered into force. (The dirham is equal to, and is subdivided into, 100 Moroccan francs.) January 18. Foreign employees residing in Morocco, if they are single or if their families reside in Morocco, were authorized to transfer abroad 30 per cent of their salaries (instead of 20 per cent, as previ- ously), beginning with January 1961 salaries. January 16. Yugoslavia was shifted from the bilateral group to the area of convertibility. The Yugoslav dinar ceased to be negotiated by the Bank of Morocco. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO February 10. Measures established on December 31, 1960 to encour- age private investment in Morocco became effective, including provision for repatriation to the country of residence of the investor of the proceeds from liquidation of approved foreign investments. March 29. An arrangement was concluded with Cuba by which trade between the two countries would be settled in convertible currencies, but Cuba would utilize two thirds of its receipts, which would be held in an account maintained in sterling by the Bank of Morocco, to purchase Moroccan goods. April 12. The 1961 import program for certain commodities was announced. May 20. Imports of utility vehicles having engines of 3,000 cubic centimeters or more of piston displacement, and of parts used in assembling vehicles weighing 5 metric tons or more, were suspended. June 12. New buying and selling rates for the convertible currencies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco were established, but rates applica- ble to transactions under bilateral payments agreements continued to be based on the par values agreed with the International Monetary Fund. August 81. Imports from the French Franc Area were made subject to the requirement of an "import commitment" and of domicile with an authorized bank, one month before actual importation. August 81. A 25 per cent advance deposit was introduced for most imports except those financed with U.S. aid or those from countries with which Morocco has bilateral payments agreements. September 6. Customs duties were increased up to 100 per cent on a number of imports in order to protect local production and reduce imports of luxury goods. September 8. Imports f rom the French Franc Area of certain com- modities were exempted f rom the requirement of domicile with an authorized bank one month before importation. These commodities and some others, when imported f rom any source, were also exempted f rom the advance deposit requirements. October 27. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Mainland China under which all transactions with that country were to be settled through accounts in dirhams. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the Nepalese Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate of exchange vis-a-vis the Indian rupee is NRs 160 = Rs 100, giving a relationship of approximately NRs 7.619 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees, but where other currencies arc involved, the rates are based on the above relationship and the foreign exchange rates for the other currency concerned against the Indian rupee. As at December 30, 1961, the rate for the U.S. dollar was NRs 7.60 buying, and NRs 7.68 selling, per US$1. Exchange Control Territory Nepal and India, under a trade and transit treaty of September 11, 1960, agree to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods. Administration of Control Permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, but there is as yet no foreign exchange control law. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing pay- ments, and these can be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rashtra Bank —in practice, Indian rupees, sterling, or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to India must be obtained in Indian rupees, and the proceeds of exports to other countries in any accept- able currency. The exchange received must be surrendered to the Nepal Rashtra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Indian goods are free of license and may be paid for in Indian rupees. All other imports require import licenses f rom the Ministry of Commerce. Applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports are considered on their merits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to commercial transactions are generally authorized, but there are some limitations on payments for such items as private travel. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exports and Export Proceeds Exports may be made freely, subject to declaration and surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally permitted. Proceeds from Invisibles No conditions are attached to foreign exchange proceeds derived from invisibles. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Foreign investors in Nepal can obtain an investment guarantee; they are then permitted to remit yearly profits of at least 10 per cent of the capital invested, and up to 25 per cent of the p r inc ipal may be remitted in any one year. Changes during 1961 September 6. Nepal became a member of the International Monetary Fund. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.62 = US$1. The official limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal, and the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for externally convertible European currencies vary between limits resulting from the dollar rate for the Netherlands guilder in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies. Authorized banks are permitted to buy and sell convertible cur- rencies1 and to sell inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward for up to 12 months' delivery, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts. Forward exchange contracts by authorized banks for more than 12 months require individual licenses, which are granted freely. The authorized banks may also purchase inconvertible currencies from banks abroad against any foreign currency or guilders on a Convertible Guilder Account or a Bilateral Guilder Account, provided that the amounts bought are used for current payments. Residents are permitted to conclude spot trans- actions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for up to 12 months' delivery with authorized banks. Foreign exchange related to transactions in securities (see section on Capital, below) is traded in a spot market at free rates that are, in practice, very close to the official market rates. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15,1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles, Netherlands New Guinea, and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Netherlands and the overseas territories constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. 1 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, and externally convertible European currencies (Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs). 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affa irs, Finance, Economic Affairs, Agri- culture, and Home Affa irs. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and its delegated offices, under directives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Practically all commercial banks are authorized to handle foreign exchange transac- tions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must always be made through an authorized bank either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in this area must be obtained in the convertible currencies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low ). Receipts which cannot be collected in con- vertible currency may be obtained in other currencies. Transactions with Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of a banking institution of the country concerned; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are described below.2 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers f rom other Convertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of the convertible guilder area, with 2 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Bulgaria, Indonesia, or Rumania are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal is subject to license from the Netherlands Bank. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible currencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. These accounts are held exclusively by banking institutions established in Indonesia and the U.S.S.R., and are used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and those two countries, respectively. They may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account or f rom another Bilateral Guilder Account of the same country, and with proceeds f rom the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. They may be debited for transfers to another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country. 3. K Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents, regardless of nationality. Balances on K Accounts may be used only for payments directly resulting f rom transactions in securities. K Accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers f rom Convertible Guilder Accounts or with funds which may be credited to Convertible Guilder Accounts, with transfers from other K Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale of securities. K Accounts may be debited for purchases of securities, for transfers to any other K Account, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies. Convertible currencies acquired in this manner must be obtained by debiting a resident's "reinvestment" account (in which are held the foreign exchange proceeds in convertible currencies of resi- dents' sales of foreign securities to nonresidents). Imports and Import Payments Most goods from all countries except Hong Kong, the Sino-Soviet area, and Yugoslavia may be imported under open general license, and no documents are required to clear the goods through customs. Imports from the countries mentioned above, 28 specified products from Japan, and a few items included in the "negative list" f rom all countries, require individual licenses; these are usually issued freely for imports from Hong Kong and Yugoslavia (except for imports on the "negative list"). Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general prescription of currency regulations. Payments for imports valued at less than f. 200 may be made without documents. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted free ly. Exchange for travel is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 3,000 for trips lasting up to two weeks, and the entire allowance may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. For longer visits, exchange equivalent to f. 150 a day will be provided for fu r ther periods up to 75 days, making an additional allowance of f. 11,250 a person. A resident traveler abroad may, in addition to the aforemen t ioned amounts, have the equivalent of f. 1,500 remitted to him through banking channels. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses or declarations are required for only a few com- modities, and for all exports to Yugoslavia and the Sino-Soviet area. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory; but if they are surrendered, it must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds is obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. For settlement in guilders of incoming exchange exceeding f. 200 derived f rom current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank or an authorized exchange office, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins which they were entitled to take with them on their outward journey. Capital Inward and ou tward capital transfers and the shifting of fo re ign- owned capital within the Netherlands f rom one asset to another are 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS sub ject to control, but general licenses have been granted for most types of capital transaction. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted only if made in convertible currencies. All authorized capital transactions, other than transactions in securities, take place at the off ic ial exchange market rates. All payments in respect of transactions in securities are channeled through a f ree market, where payments and receipts must be either in guilders through K Accounts or in convertible currencies through "reinvestment" accounts (see be low ). In addition, nonresidents may debit their Con- vertible Guilder Accounts to pay residents for transactions in securities. Residents may buy foreign securities f rom, or sell them to, other residents. Residents may sell securities abroad against any foreign currency. The exchange so acquired must be deposited with an author- ized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. If convertible currencies are acquired, a "reinvestment" account may be credited. "Reinvestment" accounts may be used to buy securities officially quoted either in the Netherlands or abroad. Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them, except securities held in W-deposits. Emigrants may avail themselves of the same facilities as travelers (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ), i.e., export up to f. 14,250 for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may then have remitted to them the total of their assets in the Netherlands. Changes during 1961 March 7. The par value of the guilder was changed f rom f. 3.80 per US$1 to f. 3.62 per US$1. The official limits were put at f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1. May 1. The Netherlands capital market was reopened to approved foreign bond issues whose proceeds are exportable in foreign currency obtainable at the official market rates. October 1. The following changes, mainly of liberalization, were made: (1) All remaining limitations on the transfer of funds abroad due to nonresidents on account of inheritances and legacies devolving in the Netherlands were abolished. (2) The existing restrictions on the holding of K Accounts and the crediting and debiting of these accounts with the proceeds from sales 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS of, and for purchases of, foreign currencies were discontinued. Resi- dents could sell securities abroad against any fore ign currency. (3) N Accounts-Indonesia and nonexportable K Accounts with country designations "Bulgaria" and "Rumania" were discontinued. Balances on such accounts were hence fo r th to be administered through W-accounts. Nonexportable securities deposits designated "Bulgaria" and "Rumania," as well as "Indonesia" securities deposits existing before October 1, 1961, were henceforth to be administered as W-deposits. Disposal of W-accounts and W-deposits would not be permitted except under license f rom the Netherlands Bank. (4) Emigrants could acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they had declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years and were removed from the population register; they could then have remitted to them the total of their assets in the Netherlands. (5) The general license for transactions between residents of the Benelux countries in Netherlands, Belgian, Luxembourg, and Congolese securities not officially listed was revoked. Such transactions were made subject to individual license. (6) Further liberalization measures in the field of insurance trans- actions were introduced: The conclusion of l ife insurance contracts in both the Netherlands and foreign markets was permitted; in addi- tion, residents could henceforth designate nonresidents as beneficiaries. The authorization granted to residents to conclude insurance contracts in foreign currency, which had hitherto been limited to indemnity insurance, was extended to include all types of insurance. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Antilles Guilders 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (mainly Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling) are set f rom time to time at rates derived f rom the rate for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for practically all current transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of certain luxury goods. These licenses must be obtained from the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for five months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fu r th er three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for fam i ly maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the authorized banks. For payments representing inter- est on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortiza- tion of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of facts. Nonresidents may take w i th them on departure fore ign currency which they brought in on arr iva l. The export of Netherlands Antilles 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may br ing with them checks or letters of credit in Netherlands An t i l les currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign currency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 if arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, wh ich is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. L i fe insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, depending on the fore ign exchange position (in 1961, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a person). Investments by individual residents in officially quoted foreign securities are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1961, these investments were permitted up to US$15,000 a person). In considering applications by other residents for such investments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Changes during 1961 March 8. The rates of the Netherlands Antilles guilder were changed f rom Ant. f. 1.885 buying, and Ant. f. 1.905 selling, per US$1, to Ant. f. 1.87 buy ing, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS NEW GUINEA Exchange Rale System No par value has been established for the Netherlands New Guinea Guilder. It is officially at par with the Netherlands guilder, giving the relationship NG f. 3.62 = US$1. Exchange transactions take place at NG f. 99.50 buying, and NG f. 100.50 selling, per f. 100. The rates for other currencies are based on Amsterdam market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director of Finance. The branches of the only commercial bank in the territory have authority to provide foreign exchange for practically all current transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of rice, wheat flour, and a few commodities restricted for health or security reasons. Exchange for all permitted imports is provided automatically. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange is provided freely by the commercial bank for most current payments, including those related to foreign trade and services and family maintenance. For exchange for other purposes, application must be made to the exchange control authorities. There is an exchange allowance for travel abroad by residents of NG f. 125 a day for each person, up to a maximum of NG f. 2,000 a trip. Resident travelers may take out NG f. 200 in local currency, and nonresident travelers may take out the currency they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are free of license. There are no exchange surrender requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles do not have to be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in NG f. 1,000 in local currency. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS NEW GUINEA Capital Payments in respect of capital transactions are subject to control, but applications for exchange (in practice, these are mainly from emigrants) are approved on a liberal basis. Changes during 1961 January 1. Licenses were no longer required for imports of refined beet and cane sugar. March 7. The change in the par value of the Netherlands guilder f rom f. 3.80 per US$1 to f. 3.62 per US$1 was extended to the New Guinea guilder, giving the relationship NG f. 3.62 = US$1. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is New Zealand Pound 1 = US$2.7809. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic transfers): £NZ 100/7/6 buying, and £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £100. Except for Australian pounds, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trad ing (commercial) banks are calcu- lated by converting the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and then ad jus t ing such rates by a special margin applicable to the currency concerned. The rates quoted by the New Zealand trading banks do not d i f fer from the parity relationship by more than 2 per cent. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their cus- tomers, at freely de term ined rates, fo rwa rd exchange transactions for up to six mon ths to cover genu ine trade transactions. Cover for longer periods may be a r ranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zea land. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance is entrusted w i th all powers and responsibili- ties in connection with exchange control. Matters of broad exchange control policy are decided by the Minister, but the general administra- tive authority has been delegated to the Governor of the Reserve Bank, and much of the routine work is done by the trad ing banks. Import licensing is handled by the Customs Department and the Department of Industries and Commerce. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is one of the territories of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand pounds. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in any non-sterling currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling f rom an External Account, in any specified currency,1 or in any other specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND currency freely exchangeable for sterling. The accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may also be used for the settlement of trans- actions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The New Zealand exchange control regulations do not provide for special treatment for the accounts of residents of other countries. However, the accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and f rom New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into d ifferent categories to wh ich various import procedures are applied. The import categories included in the 1961-62 Schedule2 are as fo l lows: Category "E" includes certain raw materials which may be imported without license. A "Basic" category includes a number of items for which licenses are issued to individual importers on the basis of stipulated percentages of the total value of licenses they received, or of their imports, in a specified previous year. Category "C" generally includes raw materials, machin- ery, and equipment essential to the New Zealand economy and not available f rom domestic production. Licenses for these goods are granted on the basis of the individual merit of each import. Category "D" includes imports for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances.3 Apart from motor vehicles, all licenses issued are available for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion. Two types of 2 The Import Licensing Schedule initially established for the calendar year 1961 has been extended until June 30, 1962, and the va l id i ty of 1961 import licenses already issued but not utilized has been prolonged until that date. A Supple- mentary Import Licensing Schedule for the first six months of 1962 provides for additional allocations for some items under certain categories (see section on Changes during 1961, June 22, below). 8 The Import Licensing Schedule normally includes also a Category "A", which comprises certain imports for which licenses are given without limitation, and a Category "R", which includes imports that are licensed up to a maximum of 150 per cent of the value of the applicants' imports of similar goods in the previous year. Category "A" was suspended on June 22, 1961; Category "R" was suspended on April 13, 1961, and some of the commodities included in it were transferred to Category "C" (see section on Changes during 1961, below). 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND license are issued for imports of motor vehicles: one available for imports from scheduled countries,4 the other available for imports from other countries. Under a special arrangement, private individuals holding certain overseas funds are permitted to import goods for their own personal use under "no-remittance import licenses." Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. The authorities can permit the holder of a license for the import of essential manufacturing goods to exchange it for a license for the import of raw materials of an equivalent value, and vice versa. If other goods are involved, such an exchange can be permitted provided that the value of the surrendered license is greater than the value of the license applied for. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for many categories of invisibles up to established limits, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of jus t ify ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by justifying docu- ments. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to £NZ 600 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of £NZ 6 a day for each day spent on land) and of up to £NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (the daily allowance being £NZ 4/4/-). An additional amount of up to £NZ 400 in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding five years. Travelers to the United Kingdom may take with them up to £NZ 15 in New Zealand currency, of which £NZ 5 may be in coins; for travelers to any other country, the limit is £NZ 7, of which £NZ 2 may be in coins. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than £NZ 1. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export *The scheduled countries are listed as Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Korea, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND proceeds will be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts of currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to the Reserve Bank; however, the Bank has never exercised its legal right to purchase such receipts. Disposal of such currencies, except by t rans fer to New Zealand through the banking system, requires the consent of the Reserve Bank. No control is exercised over the disposal of receipts of Sterling Area currencies derived from invisibles. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and local currency. Foreign banks are permitted to send for exchange, within certain limits, New Zealand banknotes and coins purchased by them from New Zealand travelers. Capital Investments in New Zealand by residents of other countries may require prior permission, but approval for repatriation of capital cannot be assumed unless the capital is initially transferred to New Zealand through banking channels or in some other approved manner (plant, materials) and, in the case of investment from outside the Sterling Area, unless prior approval of the investment is obtained from the authorities. Capital receipts in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be offered to or declared to the Reserve Bank. No control is exercised over the disposal by New Zealand residents of capital receipts in Sterling Area currencies. Remittances on account of legacies up to £NZ 750 from the estate of a New Zealand resident in any 12-month period are approved by the trading banks. Remittances of legacies for larger amounts and all other outward capital remittances require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand residents are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank. Changes during 1961 April 13. It was announced that no fu r ther licenses would be issued for 85 items included in the "R" category; they consisted mainly of consumer goods of a less essential na ture; the remaining items in this category were transferred to the "C" category. In consequence, the "R" category, licenses for which had been issued up to 100 per cent of licenses granted in a base period, was canceled. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND April 14- The basic travel allowance of £NZ 750 for each adult remained unchanged, but the additional amount of £NZ 500 for those who had not received an allocation for the preceding three years was reduced to £NZ 250; the qualifying period was extended to five years. May 9. It was announced that import licenses that had been issued for the calendar year 1961 would be valid for 15 months or longer, i.e., to March 31, 1962 or even to June 30, 1962. June 22. The import licensing period was changed from a calendar year to a period running from July 1 to June 30 of the following year. The 1961 Import Licensing Schedule and the validity of 1961 licenses were extended until June 30, 1962. A Supplementary Import Licensing Schedule was drawn up for the period January 1 to June 30, 1962; it included mainly industrial raw materials, components for industry, spare parts, essential basic foodstuffs, and a few essential consumer goods. Licenses granted under this Supplementary Schedule were to be issued from August 1,1961 onward for imports to enter New Zealand a f ter January 1, 1962. The Supplementary Schedule included the following provisions (provisions under the 1961 Import Schedule are given in parentheses): 17 (17) raw materials free of license; over 130 (over 500) commodities or groups of commodities licensed on the basis of a percentage of the applicants' 1960 or 1961 licenses or imports; some 420 (360) items included in Category "C" and about 550 (120) items in Category "D". Category "A" was abolished. July 20. The travel allowance was reduced from £NZ 750 to £NZ 600 for an adult in any period of 12 months, but an allowance of £NZ 1,000 for persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding five years was retained. August 81. New Zealand became a member of the Monetary Fund. October 27. An initial par value for the New Zealand pound, of £NZ 0.359596 per US$1, was established with the International Mone- tary Fund. International 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nicaraguan Cordobas 7.00 = US$1. The official rates are C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to all trade transactions and to payments for most current invisibles, as well as to registered capital. Other transactions (mainly related to capital and invisibles not authorized at the official rates) take place in a f ree market. The rate in the f ree market as at December 30, 1961 was C$7.28 buying, and C$7.38 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nicaragua, wh ich by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au thor i ty has been delegated to the commerc ial banks, and the Cen tral Bank does not deal with the pub l ic except in special situations or for purposes of monetary control. The Central Bank also issues export licenses and grants applications for import licenses accord- ing to a classification established by the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency. However, the Central Bank has the power to prohibit the export of any domestically produced article if the currency stipulated for payment is not easily convertible into dollars in international markets. Incoming and outgoing payments normally are made in U.S. dollars, except that payments to El Salvador can be made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license, and all importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers, those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise, and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Import licenses valid for six months are issued freely to the registered importers for most goods, provided that certain other requirements are met (see be low ). Imports of equipment for cotton-ginning plants and for process- ing of milk and meat require approval from the Ministry of Economy. Imports of certain types of footwear are prohibited. Before placing an order, the importer must apply for an import license f rom the Central Bank. The license is issued a f ter the appropri- ate advance deposit has been paid. For the purpose of advance deposit 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA requirements, three import categories have been established on the basis of the essentiality of the goods concerned. No deposit is required for items in List I and import licenses are issued within 48 hours. For items in List II, the importer must deposit in domestic currency 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value before making the application to import, and the license is issued within 48 hours. For items in List III, the importer must make an advance deposit of 100 per cent and wait 30 days before the import license is issued. The commercial bank which receives the deposit must immediately transfer it to the Central Bank. When the goods reach Nicaragua, the importer makes payment to the foreign supplier, using the deposit at the Central Bank to purchase the necessary exchange. In addition to imports of List I items and government imports, imports for certain investment projects are exempt from advance deposits under an Industrial Development Law. Payments for imports are usually made by sight d ra f t, but in special circumstances payment in advance or by letter of credit can be authorized by the Central Bank. The Central Bank may also authorize imports on consignment with deferred payment and imports paid for with funds derived f rom properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, subject to a limit, determined by the Central Bank, on the total amount of these operations and provided the following conditions are met: (1) that the imports consist of essential goods not subject to the advance deposit requirement; or (2) that the imports consist of capital goods, irrespective of the list in which they have been classified, intended for the development of production or for basic works comple- mentary to production and are financed with medium-term credits; and (3) that the importer duly pays the d ra f ts for his general imports. Imports with the importer's own funds are also permitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles at the official rate are subject to authoriza- tion, which is granted for government payments; profits, interest, and amortization payments on registered foreign investments and credits; salaries and fees of foreign technicians rendering specialized services; remittances to students abroad up to maximum monthly limits, depend- ing on the country; insurance and reinsurance premiums of the Govern- ment and autonomous entities; and payments between the Central Bank of Nicaragua and central banks in other Central American countries, as well as the Central American Bank for Economic Integration. Payments for other invisibles may be made through the free market, including payments for travel, for the expenses of students abroad 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA in excess of those authorized at the official rate, for medical expenses, and for interest and dividends on unregistered capital. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license in order to ensure the surrender of export proceeds at the official rate and to verify that the declared export prices are in line with prices in world markets. The Central Bank is authorized to prohibit the export of domestically produced articles if the currency in which payment has been stipulated is not easily convertible into U.S. dollars. For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, and co rn ), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or can temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered at the official rate within 60 days (with the possibility of extending the period by 30 days) from the date of shipment. Foreign concessionaires exporting gold, silver, timber, and sugar are obliged to sell their exchange proceeds at the official rate only to the extent necessary to meet their local currency requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Although in principle foreign exchange derived from most invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate, in practice most of such exchange is sold in a f ree market. Alternatively, proceeds from invisi- bles in U.S. dollars may be retained on accounts with the Central Bank. The free market may be used by foreign tourists for converting their exchange into local currency, by foreign company officials for obtain- ing local currency against their salaries paid in foreign currencies, and by exporters and importers for exchanging their commissions in foreign currencies into local currency. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26,1955 (effec- tive March 11, 1955), foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are granted favorable treatment. Foreign invest- ments may be made in any f o rm; if made in foreign exchange, the exchange must be surrendered. The law provides that exchange trans- actions in respect of registered foreign investments are to be carried out at the official exchange rate. Registered foreign investments are 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA granted the following privileges: free repatriation of the registered capital; free transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and free re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Profits not transferred abroad during the year following the year in which they were earned and not registered as foreign capital are treated as domestic capital. The Central Bank may also authorize the sale of foreign exchange to pay interest and amortization on loans of less than one year obtained abroad by natural or juridical persons domiciled in Nicaragua and intended for the purchase of capital goods or for the development of production, provided that the Central Bank's approval of the loan was obtained in advance. Remittances on account of foreign capital invested prior to March 11, 1955 and registered under the Law for the Regulation of Inter- national Exchange of November 9, 1950 are subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, with the limitation that remittances of profits or amortization may not exceed 10 per cent of the capital annually. Remittances on account of investment subject to special contracts signed with the Government are bound by the terms of the contract. Capital transfers by residents of Nicaragua through the official market are not permitted. Payments related to unregistered foreign capital are made through the free market. Changes during 1961 January 1. The Organic Law of the Central Bank of Nicaragua became effective. The Issue Department of the National Bank of Nicaragua was replaced by the Central Bank of Nicaragua in adminis- tering the control system. The National Bank would continue to operate as a government-owned commercial bank. January 80. The export of cottonseed was limited to the surplus remaining after domestic demand had been met. April 11. The limitation on exports of cottonseed was revoked. April 20. The suspension of imports of leather boots with wooden soles, which was introduced in July 1960, was removed. June 8. The Central American Agreement for Equalization of Import Charges was approved. June 17. A. new Law Regulating International Transfers provided, among other things, for the following changes: (1) Imports with the importers' own funds were no longer prohibited. (2) The Central Bank was authorized to organize and regulate a f ree market in foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles and to accept deposits in foreign 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA currency arising from invisibles. (3) National and fore ign insurance companies were authorized to conclude insurance or reinsurance con- tracts in foreign currency, provided that they registered the contracts or policies with the Central Bank. This authorization was not, how- ever, to be construed to mean that such companies had the right to obtain exchange in the official market for the payment of premiums. August 2. A Preferential Trade Agreement was signed by Nicaragua, Panama, and Costa Rica, providing, among other things, for free or preferential treatment of trade among the contracting parties, and for exemption of such trade from quantitative restrictions other than those agreed upon. August 2. Exports of iron, copper, bronze, and aluminum scrap were prohibited. August 2. Exports of male livestock were prohibited for one year. August 8. Exports of rice were prohibited for five months. September 5. Exports of deer skins and ocelot skins were prohibited. September 25. Coal and lignite coke were transferred to import List I. November 7. Exports of oilseed concentrates and enriched livestock feed were prohibited. December 19. The prohibition on imports of leather boots for miners was suspended. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Nigerian Pound has been established with the Fund. The Nigerian pound is officially at par with the pound sterling, making it equal to US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria is required by law to buy and sell sterling at rates within fixed limits (£100/15/- buying, and £99/5/- selling, per £N 100). No official rates are quoted for the U.S. dollar by the Central Bank, but it deals in U.S. dollars on a day-to-day basis at rates which reflect the international sterling-U.S. dollar market rate. The commercial banks in Nigeria base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates for these currencies plus the cost of transfer to Lagos and brokerage. Administration of Control The administration of exchange and trade controls is carried out by the Federal Minister of Finance and the Federal Minister of Com- merce and Industry. Authority to approve applications for foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Federal Minister of Finance is delegated to authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Nigeria and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in any other currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling f rom an External Account or in any specified currency.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales by nonresidents of foreign currency. External specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. In addition to External Accounts, there are also Blocked Accounts. Their purpose is to receive funds, e.g., capital proceeds, which are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents but which may be used for authorized purposes, including investments in approved securities. Most of the Blocked Accounts are held by persons who stayed for some length of time in Nigeria and subsequently returned to countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is prohibited for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons. Certain imports (altogether about 20 commodities or groups of commodities) are also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with; these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Most other commodities may be imported under open general license. Individual import licenses are, however, required for the following: (1) imports from the dollar area of coal, coke, petroleum products, gold, gold chloride, and other gold products, secondhand clothing, and produce the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control in Nigeria (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ); (2) all imports f rom certain countries, mainly those in the Sino-Soviet b loc; (3) imports of wheat and sugar from countries that are not parties to the international wheat and sugar agreements; and (4) all imports originating in South Africa or South West Afr ica. Foreign exchange is granted automatically for all authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval of the exchange control authorities. An allowance of up to £250 in foreign exchange in one year may be granted by authorized banks to residents of Nigeria for travel outside the Sterling Area. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £50 in sterling and Nigerian banknotes and up to the equivalent of £250 in other currency notes; visitors may, however, take out the amounts they brought into Nigeria in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of certain goods (Afr ican antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Afr ican ceremonies), and of all goods exported otherwise than in an a ircraft or in a steamship, is prohibited, except under prescribed condi- tions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, is also prohibited. Most other locally produced goods may be exported freely to any country under open general license. However, a number of re- stricted items, including those covered by the Central Marketing Board Ordinance, may be exported only under individual license. (The Central Marketing Board Ordinance covers such items as cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels.) Individual licenses are also required for exports to South A f r ica or South West Africa. Export proceeds other than those in Sterling Area currencies must be offered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria for conversion into Nigerian pounds or in the United Kingdom for conversion into sterling within 180 days from the day of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Nigeria may bring in freely foreign and domestic banknotes. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Nigeria and other Sterling Area countries. The investment in Nigeria of funds from countries outside the Sterling Area must have the prior approval of the Federal Minister of Finance. Such prior screening, however, is meant only to eliminate speculative ventures which would not contribute, directly or indirectly, to the economy of the country. Once the initial investment is granted "approved status," repatriation of the original capital and remittances of profits are normally permitted after local expenses and taxes have been met. Transactions in securities involving residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to certain controls. Changes during 1961 March 2. It was announced that specific licenses would be required for imports of goods originating in South A f r ica or South West A f r ica, as well as for exports to those territories of all goods and produce of Nigerian origin. March 30. Nigeria became a member of the International Monetary Fund. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY * Exchange Rate System The par value is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 — US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal, and the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for certain European currencies2 vary between limits resulting from the dollar rate for the Norwegian krone in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, where required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Commerce. However, for most agricultural goods, import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, and for fish and fish products, export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of certain precious metals are licensed by the Bank of Norway. All payments to and from nonresidents must be made through one of the Norwegian authorized banks or through the Bank of Norway. Authorized banks may effect payments freely for imports not requiring an import license and for most invisibles. Payments in the restricted sector require, in general, approval from the Ministry of Agriculture ( f or most agricultural goods), the Ministry of Commerce ( for other goods), or the Bank of Norway ( for invisibles). Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral area3 and the convertible area (all other countries). Settlements with countries in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement. Settlements with countries in the convertible area may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Pay- i ln view of the changes which took place on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY ments to and from Greece must be made through the clearing account of that country with the Bank of Norway; however, balances on the account are considered by the Norwegian authorities to be convertible. Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held for residents of countries in the convertible area (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Norway to the convertible area, with transfers f rom other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from the convertible area to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of convertible currencies. Nonresident-owned capital, wh ich normally may not be transferred abroad, is deposited in Capital Accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance premiums, and traveling expenses, as well as for direct investments, upon approval, and for investments in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with a Norwegian authorized bank or be sent to the owner abroad. Capital amounts which, according to the general rules or specific permission, are transferable abroad, may be credited to a Convertible Krone Account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely f rom the f ree list area upon presentation of the original invoice.4 In addition, for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., there is a special list comprising goods for which import licenses are required, and goods not included in this special list may be imported freely from those countries. Imports of commodities included in a published list of nonliberalized goods require import licenses.5 Most of the commodities in the nonliberalized list are also 4 The free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, China (Mainland), China (Ta iwan), Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. 5 Licenses are also required for imports of liberalized ships (i.e., dry cargo ships) built abroad, in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY included in a global quota list, permitting them to be imported f rom the global quota area (which is identical with the f ree list area) up to certain limits. Some commodities on the nonliberalized list are subject to bilateral quotas, while others are licensed on an ad hoc basis. Those licensed on an ad hoc basis include specialized and secondhand ships, which are licensed freely provided that certain regulations (requiring in principle that such purchases be fully financed by foreign loans with maturities of at least five years from the date of delivery) are complied with. A small number of imports are prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equip- ment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments to countries in the convertible area for most invisibles, including income f rom capital and contractual amortization, may be obtained freely. Payments for invisibles to countries in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. Norwegian tourists to all countries are granted the equivalent of NKr 2,000 a year for each adult and NKr 500 a year for each child under 16 years of age. For business travel, the allowance is the equivalent of NKr 200 a day in all European countries and the equivalent of NKr 300 a day in other countries. Each person leaving Norway may take NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may take out any foreign banknotes that they can prove they brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the convertible area, against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Payments must be received within six months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exchange from exports must be surrendered. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in NKr 1,000 in Norwegian banknotes, in denomina- tions not exceeding NKr 100, and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by non- residents are subject to approval by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital are subject to individual license, the granting of which depends on such circumstances as the merits of the case, the transfer possibilities under a relevant payments agreement, the possibility of compensation with Norwegian assets abroad, etc. Out- ward transfers in respect of investments made in Norway after World War II are granted freely. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. In accordance with an agreement concluded by Norway with Denmark, Sweden, and the United Kingdom in 1950, transfers of capital belonging to residents of these countries are normally permitted. Inheritances and dowries may be transferred freely to OECD countries. Emigrants are granted the equivalent of US$5,000 a person, in addition to the tourist allowance; an emigrant may t rans fer an additional US$5,000 one year after emigration and any remaining assets upon being declared a nonresident. Repatriation of moderate amounts of other nonresident-owned capital is permitted in cases of hardship. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct invest- ments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Changes during 1961 January 1. Limitations on transfers to the dollar area of earnings from motion-picture rentals were removed. January 20. The limit of US$10,000 on the transfer of inheritances and dowries to OEEC countries was removed. The exchange allowance for emigrants (in addition to the tourist allowance) was increased from US$500 to US$5,000 a person, plus a fu r ther US$5,000 one year after emigration and any remaining assets upon being declared a nonresident. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY April 1. Imports of travel goods, leather gloves, belts, certain toys, etc., were liberalized. April 17. Imports and exports of gold, silver, platinum, and semi- manufactured articles thereof were made subject to license from the Bank of Norway. May 1. Imports of a number of commodities, including bananas, oranges, beverages, soap, artificial resins and plastic materials, certain internal combustion engines, trucks, chassis, etc., were liberalized. July 1. Imports of fertilizers (superphosphates) were liberalized. July 1. Transactions with Israel were placed on a convertible currency basis. Israel was included in the convertible area and ( for import purposes) in the global quota area. September 29. Transactions with Brazil were placed on a convertible currency basis, and Brazil was included in the convertible area. October 18. The Norwegian authorities informed the Fund that Norway no longer claimed balance of payments justification for any remaining import restrictions. November 1. Payments to and f rom Turkey would hencefor th be made in convertible currency, and not, as previously, through the clearing account. November 20. Liberalization of several industrial products, as f rom January 1 and July 1, 1962 and January 1, 1963, was announced. NOTE.—The following changes came into effect on January 1, 1962: (1) The exchange allowance for business travel was raised to the equivalent of NKr 200 a day in all European countries and the equivalent of NKr 300 a day in other countries. (2) For imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., a special list of the goods for which import licenses are required was published. Goods not included in this list could henceforth be imported freely from these countries. (3) The free list area was defined as comprising all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, China (Mainland), China (Taiwan), Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their require- ments of specified currencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. As at December 30, 1961, market rates for tele- graphic transfers on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. 53%2d. selling, per rupee, and on New York they were PRs 4.7225 buying, and PRs 4.7750 selling, per US$1. Other effective rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodi- ties. As at December 30, 1961, these bonus vouchers were quoted at rates around PRs 158 per PRs 100 nominal value. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 24 commercial banks authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Applications for import licenses are submitted through these commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Exchange receipts must be obtained through a bank. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United King- dom, in Pakistan rupees f rom the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized bank. Pay- ments by residents of Pakistan to countries in the Sterling Area are 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account;1 payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. In the case of imports, payment is made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade trans- actions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from non- resident banks'rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission f rom the exchange control for transfers f rom their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange control on transactions with India are governed by separate regulations. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense purposes, goods for which orders are placed directly by departments of the Central Government, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route from A fghan is tan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). For some 62 items, import licenses are issued automatically when the importer has utilized his existing license. An import license may be used in any country of the world, except for items for which single- country licenses are issued under the terms of trade agreements with particular countries. Import licenses are issued only on a c. & f. basis, and are generally issued for commodities specified in the half-yearly import policy announcements. In addition, import licenses are issued for a wide range of specified items under the Export Bonus Scheme, and ^ However, a part of Pakistan's trade with India is settled through a clearing account in inconvertible Indian rupees under the terms of a limited payments agreement with that country. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN for other specified items under "barter" arrangements concluded with foreign governments or with concerns abroad. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank when it receives the related import document. The license holder may make payment by opening a letter of credit or by remitting against a sight draf t. Advance remittances before shipping documents are received are not normally permitted, but in special cases—e.g., machinery and other capital goods where deposits have to be made with overseas manufac turers — the State Bank may authorize advance payment for a part of the value of the goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. However, under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Remittances of a personal nature are either sub- ject to quotas or are permitted on their ind iv idual merits. Separate regulations govern payments to India for such purposes as fam i ly maintenance. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their fam i l ies abroad require special authority. Foreign exchange is granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions, but not to importers for transport insurance, which may only be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Exchange is granted for transfers abroad of dividends and other earnings due to nonresidents. Payments for inter- national travel fares are permitted if certain conditions are met. There are basic allocations of exchange for tourist travel, according to geographic areas, and an annual allowance for pilgrimages to Saudi Arabia. Exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and students' expenses in other countries and for sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use part of their entitle- ment under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes at any one time and, if leaving for Afghan is tan, any amount of Afghan currency. Individual permission is required for the export of other currencies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of most commodities is allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 18 listed items, as well as for certain types 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN of sports goods below minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter to ensure surrender of the foreign exchange earned. The exporter declares that, when payment in accord- ance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the foreign currency within a certain period of time. After making sure that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the export shipment. There is an export bonus scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than the following ma jor items: raw ju t e; raw cotton; hides and skins, including lambskins but excluding furs and reptile skins; wool, including wool waste; rice, excluding superior varieties (namely, basmati, parmel, and begmi); tea; and cotton yarn, including cotton waste yarn. Exporters of all other primary products and of jute and cotton manufactures (other than cotton ya rn ), after surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, are issued bonus vouchers in rupees equivalent to 20 per cent of the net exchange surrendered; for exporters of all other manufactures, the percentage is 40. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Exporters of certain services (aircraft repairs, salvage operations, ship repairs, and shipping) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; these vouchers are freely transfer- able and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified com- modities. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their earnings from foreign tourists on account of board and lodging, for a number of items required by the hotel industry as well as by the restaurants approved by the Directorate of Tourism. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas ( f rom India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Govern- ment follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established af ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original invest- ment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities will be subject to the exchange control regulations in force at the time, and they will not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the capital, in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their invest- ments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are in general not permitted. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals, other than Indian nationals, are permitted to sell foreign securities upon approval by the State Bank, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds resulting from such sales are surrendered, but there is no provision for purchases of foreign securities by residents. In this connection, foreigners residing in Pakistan are considered nonresidents. Exports of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing f rom the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Changes during 1961 January 1. For the first semester of 1961, the scope of Pakistan's automatic licensing system was enlarged by the addition of 33 items, making a total of 62 items. January 19. Details of the exchange facilities for the 1961 Haj Pilgrimage were announced. Exchange would be allocated by ballot up to a certain maximum per person, depending on the means of travel and provided that the fu ll amount required for the purchase of the exchange was deposited at the time of application. January 80. Exports of cotton yarn and of all types of cotton waste yarn were removed f rom the Export Bonus Scheme. March 2. A special payments agreement was concluded between the Government of Pakistan and an Italian concern, for the export of cotton f rom Pakistan against the import of certain goods from Italy. Payments under the agreement would be routed through a special rupee account held with the National Bank of Pakistan. March 9. Eleven import items were placed on open general license, including three items already on automatic licensing. May 8. It was announced that, contrary to previous practice, exporters of commodities under the Export Bonus Scheme could, under certain conditions, be eligible for grants of foreign exchange for business travel abroad without surrendering a corresponding amount of export bonus vouchers. May 11. The amount of Pakistan currency notes permitted to be imported by travelers not traveling on Category "A" visas was reduced from PRs 5,000 to PRs 80. June 80. It was announced that the Export Bonus Scheme had been extended to June 30, 1965. June 80. Thirty-seven additional items were allowed to be imported under the Export Bonus Scheme. July 20. Restrictions were imposed on exports of certain varieties of sports goods below the fixed export prices. August 29. Exports of bamboo were made subject to export license. August 80. Another item (art silk yarn) was allowed to be imported under the Export Bonus Scheme. October 27. The special facilities for nonresidents to remit funds to Pakistan and invest in government bonds and shares expired. December 1. Exports of mill-made cotton piece goods and ready- made garments to the United Kingdom were made subject to export license. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Panamanian Balboa 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by the silver balboa and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing is in effect for a few items and a few imports are subject to quantitative restriction. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits are required for a few items and a few exports are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1961 August 2. A Preferential Trade Agreement was signed by Panama, Costa Rica, and Nicaragua, providing, among other things, for free or preferential treatment of trade among the contracting parties, and for exemption of such trade from quantitative restrictions other than those agreed upon. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System The par value of Paraguayan Guaranies 60.00 = US$1 is not applied to any transactions. Most exchange transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 30, 1961 were (ft 123.60 buying, and (ft 126.00 selling, per US$1. However, settle- ments with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of (ft 121.00 per US$1. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the commercial banks, except for those related to govern- ment payments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay supervises the foreign exchange trans- actions carried out by the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of cur- rency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain types of cotton textiles and of portland cement are prohibited. All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for a mini- mum of 120 days or, if the deposit is made af ter the date of shipment, for a minimum of 180 days or, for nonexempted commodities imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for government imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organizations, imports f rom Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, and certain Spanish goods imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Paraguay. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place, as follows: wheat and petroleum fuels, 15 per cent; other imports, 24 per cent. These surcharges are collected by the banks either at the time the import remittance is made or at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance, whichever is the earlier. The following are exempt 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY from surcharge: imports for the Government, for diplomats, and for certain international organizations; all imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay; and Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay. Imports on credit for a term of more than three months require approval from the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to license, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports are freely disposable. With the exception of a number of agricultural and forestry products, exports are subject to a tax in guaranies of 7% per cent of the value of the goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital Capital receipts or payments by either residents or nonresidents are not restricted. Changes during 1961 January 1. The payments agreement with Uruguay was terminated, and settlements with that country were placed on a convertible currency basis. January 23. Imports of Spanish agricultural machinery and imple- ments through the f r ee zone granted to Spain by Paraguay were exempted from the advance deposit requirements and from exchange surcharges. January 81. The prohibition of August 17,1960 on imports of various commodities was rescinded. Advance deposit requirements applicable to these imports remained the same as before the prohibition. February 22. Imports of potatoes and onions, prohibited since September 1960 and October 1960, respectively, were again permitted. April 1. The export taxes of 2 per cent and 2% per cent were abolished. May 20. Imports subject to a 50 per cent advance deposit, and some subject to higher percentages, were exempted f rom the advance deposit 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY requirement when originating in Spain and entering through the Spanish free zone. June 28. Surcharges on all imports, excluding wheat and petroleum fuels, from countries other than Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, were increased to 24 per cent. August 17. The import of portland cement was prohibited. December 7. Advance deposits of 200 per cent and 110 per cent were reduced to 100 per cent, and the advance deposit requirements of 50 per cent and 20 per cent were abolished. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System The initial par value of Peruvian Soles 6.50 = US$1, established on December 18,1946, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. No new par value has been proposed. All exchange transactions are settled through the exchange market, in which the rate on December 30, 1961 was S/. 26.81 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted freely, except imports f rom Eastern Europe (excluding Czechoslovakia) and Mainland China. Exchange for pay- ments abroad may be obtained free ly in the exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1961 January 81. The bilateral payments arrangement with Argentina was terminated. March 27. A tax of S/. 0.90 per k i logram was imposed on imports of refined fa ts and oils. September 29. The surcharge imposed on imports of champagne, cognac, whisky, gin, unsweetened liqueurs, and distilled alcoholic beverages of Asian origin was reduced f rom 200 per cent to 50 per cent. October 6. The specific duty surcharge of 50 per cent imposed on imports of bags made of jute, linen, and similar fibers was canceled. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Philippine Pesos 2.00 = US$1. A fluctuating rate applies to all exchange payments and to all receipts other than 20 per cent of proceeds from merchandise exports. To this 20 per cent the par value rate of P 2.00 per US$1 applies, resulting in a mixing rate of approximately P 3.197 per US$1 for total export proceeds. On March 2, 1962, the fluctuating rate averaged P 3.49668 buying, and P 3.52445 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of the Philippines. The Central Bank issues circulars and directives to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by its Monetary Board. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, Italian lire, or Netherlands guilders. Imports and Import Payments Aside f rom advance deposit requirements, there are no restrictions on imports. The percentages of advance deposits required vary accord- ing to the degree of essentiality of imports, viz., 50 per cent for semi- essential producer goods; 100 per cent for nonessential producer goods and semiessential consumer goods; and 150 per cent for unclassified items and nonessential consumer goods. Advance deposits must accom- pany the import letter of credit; they must be kept as time deposits with banks for at least 120 days and are subject to a reserve requirement of 100 per cent. The advance deposit requirements apply both to imports covered by letters of credit opened by the banks and to "no-dollar" imports (financed by importers7 own exchange), the only exception being imports under the U.S. aid program. 1 In view of the changes which took place early in 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at March 2, 1962. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made free ly. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not in general restricted, but they are controlled to ensure* that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and eco- nomic development are prohibited. Exports of certain products of marginal and submarginal industries are permitted under a barter arrangement which allows the exporter to import specified classes of goods and thus frees him f rom the obligation to surrender proceeds. With the exception of exports under barter arrangements, the pro- ceeds of all exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, deutsche mark, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, French francs, Italian lire, or Netherlands guilders. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported f rom the Philippines unless covered by a d r a ft drawn in one of these currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be under- taken by an authorized agent; however, payments by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may also be allowed, pro- vided that such payments are received in advance of the export ship- ment. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized agent: 20 per cent at the official rate and 80 per cent at the free market rate. Proceeds from Invisibles The free market rate is applied to all receipts from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Capital There are no restrictions on capital movements. However, for statistical purposes a special form prescribed by the Central Bank must be filled out by all purchasers of exchange for capital transfers. Changes during 1961 January 4- Inward remittances of the nature of foreign investments had to be approved by the Central Bank to entitle them to full con- version at the f ree market rate; otherwise, they had to be converted into pesos 50 per cent at the official rate of F 2.00 per US$1 and 50 per cent at the free market rate. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES January 5. It was announced that payments for reinsurance premiums after November 28, 1960, as well as claims on losses under reinsurance contracts and covers and claims on marine losses occurring af ter that date, must be made at the free market rate. January 6. Gold producing companies were allowed to procure all their import requirements at the official rate until June 1, 1961. They were also authorized, to the extent of 90 per cent of the export proceeds of their gold shipments, to cover their imports of required commodities, except unclassified items, without any regard to percentage distribution. March 2. The third phase of the "decontrol" program was put into effect. The proceeds from exports, U.S. Government expenditures, and invisibles other than those mentioned below were to be surrendered 25 per cent at the official rate and 75 per cent at the free market rate. Foreign capital investments, receipts from tourism, inward remittances of Philippine citizens abroad and veterans, and exchange received from diplomatic personnel were to be surrendered at the f ree market rate, as previously. Sales of exchange at the official rate (plus the exchange margin, where applicable) were limited to 50 per cent of imports in the decontrolled category; 25 per cent of imports required by dollar- earning industries; government expenditures within the budget for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1961 (a f ter which government expenditures would be treated in the same manner as other, similar, private trans- actions) ; and forward exchange contracts with approval of the Mone- tary Board. Sales of foreign exchange other than the above were to be made at the free market rate. March 15. The exchange margin was reduced from 20 per cent to 15 per cent. Sales of exchange to pay for imports of decontrolled items and for imports for the dollar-earning industries had all to be made at the composite rates of P 2.50 and P 2.75 per US$1, respectively, plus the margin fee where applicable. April 6. The special rate applicable to the proceeds of gold exports was reduced to !P 3.45 per US$1, less the service charge of %0 of 1 per cent. September 6. The Monetary Board revoked the privilege granted to gold producing companies which entitled them to purchase free market exchange to the extent of 90 per cent of the export proceeds of their gold shipments to cover their imports of various commodities, except those under the "unclassified items7' category. October 8. Under a "no-dollar" import scheme, qualified producers were permitted to import, with their own exchange, essential producer or consumer goods and decontrolled items consisting of raw materials, 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES equipment, or spare parts to be used in their own enterprises, and qualified importers were permitted to import, with their own exchange, essential consumer and essential producer goods, decontrolled items, and rice if the commodities were within their lines of business. October 16. Exchange allowances granted for travel and to students studying abroad were curtailed. Both utilization and reimbursements of travel funds were made subject to postaudit to prevent various abuses. October 20. The privilege granted to the agent banks to sell exchange at the free market rate for imports within certain limits set by the Central Bank's various directives was withdrawn. All purchases of exchange for imports at the f ree market rate were made subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. (Previously, the agent banks were permitted to sell exchange at the free market rate, without prior approval, to all operating industries and producers, including qualified new producers, for imports of machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, and to each importer who was a regular quota holder in amounts up to US$200,000 a month for imports of machinery, equip- ment, and other capital goods.) November 21. Restrictions on payments for invisibles were intensi- fied. Substantial reductions were made in the permitted amounts of various kinds of remittance, i.e., by 50 per cent in the case of dividends, profits, and other earnings, film rentals, and net insurance premium balances, and by 20 per cent in the case of special blocked fiduciary accounts. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1962: January 22. The final phase of the decontrol program was put into effect. Aside from advance deposit requirements on imports, no restric- tions would be imposed on foreign trade and payments, including capital movements. A fluctuating rate would apply to all exchange payments and receipts, except that the par value of P 2.00 per US$1 would continue to apply to 20 per cent of the proceeds from merchan- dise exports, and exchange sales under contracts or commitments made before January 22, 1962 would be subject to the rate agreed in the original contracts or commitments. The margin fee previously collected by the Central Bank on most sales of exchange was suspended. All imports must be covered by letters of credit opened by authorized agent banks, except small transactions involving no more than US$100. Import letters of credit must be accompanied by special time deposits ranging between 25 per cent and 150 per cent of the value of the letter 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES of credit. These time deposits must be kept for periods no shorter than 120 days and would be subject to a reserve requirement of 100 per cent. Authorized agent banks could sell fore ign exchange for invisibles to any applicant without requiring prior specific licensing from the Central Bank. For capital transfers, a special fo rm prescribed by the Central Bank must be filled out by the purchaser of exchange. Blocked non- resident f iduc iary accounts reverted to the status of ordinary deposits and all special requirements governing them were revoked. January 80. The Central Bank announced that the advance deposit requirements would apply to "no-dollar" imports, except shipments by the U.S. International Cooperation Administration or its successor entity and other imports of a nonmerchandise nature. March 2. The Central Bank announced (1) that special time deposits for import letters of credit covering essential producer, essential con- sumer, and decontrolled items were no longer required, and (2) that the special time deposits and the reserve requirements thereon could be either in cash or in government notes, securities, or bonds. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the Portuguese Escudo has been established with the Fund. The parity of the escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar is Esc 28.75 == US$1. The limits for the U.S. dollar have been fixed at Esc 28.42 buying, and Esc 29.08 selling, per US$1, in accordance with Article 9 of the European Monetary Agreement. Market rates for externally convertible European currencies vary between limits result- ing f rom the dollar rate for the escudo in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories1 constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are applied almost uni- formly throughout the area, and current payments between the various territories are made freely through controlled accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is the responsibility of the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy and of the Council of Ministers; a Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers trade controls; and import and export licenses are issued by the Department for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the Directorate-General^ office. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments agreements are made on the basis of the provisions of those agreements. Thus, settlements with (1) Brazil, Greece, Israel, Turkey, and the United Arab Republic are made through special accounts in U.S. dollars; (2) with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, and Poland, through clearing accounts in escudos and in the currency of the partner country; (3) with Chile, in Portuguese escudos; and 1 Listed as the Azores, Madeira, the Cape Verde Islands, Portuguese Guinea, Sao Joaq Baptista de Ajuda, the Islands of Sao Tome and Principe, Angola, Mozambique, the Portuguese Indies (Goa, Damao, and D iu ), Macao, and Portuguese Timor. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (4) with Finland in escudos and Finnish markkas. Settlements with other countries may be made in U.S. dollars or any convertible Euro- pean currency except escudos. Export receipts may, in addition, be received in escudos. Any deviation from the general regulations requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' accounts in escudos held by persons or firms resident or domiciled in countries with convertible currencies may be converted freely into any other convertible currency at the market rates. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration, mainly in order to enforce the prescription of currency regulations. Most imports from OECD countries and their overseas territories are f ree of quantitative restric- tion, but import licenses are required (except for most imports valued at less than Esc 2,500); licenses for these liberalized imports are granted automatically. Imports of all other goods, including all those from other countries, require import licenses, applications for which are considered on an individual basis. Appropriate exchange is granted automatically for authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments on account of invisibles that are made in foreign currency or by crediting a nonresident account, and that exceed Esc 2,500, require individual licenses; for lesser amounts, the applicant must undertake to supply documentary evidence of the obligation, should proof be required later. Payments to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are licensed freely within the terms of the relevant agreement. Payments in favor of residents of any OECD country are licensed freely, without any limitation on the amount, on account of costs incidental to exports and imports, and up to Esc 100,000 on account of various other categories of current payments. Travelers may take out any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to registration, mainly in order to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. Certain exports to any country, and all exports to other than OECD countries payable in an OECD currency, are subject to individual license. Export proceeds must be surrendered. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Proceeds from Invisibles Payments f rom residents of OECD countries may be received free ly by Portuguese residents on account of costs incidental to exports and imports, without any limitation on the amount, and on account of a number of other categories of invisibles, up to Esc 100,000. The indi- vidual permit of the Bank of Portugal is required in all other cases. Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Capital Most movements of capital between metropolitan Portugal and other member countries of the OECD are free of restriction and are classified in two lists. Transfers of capital specified in List No. 1 are subject to prior authorization by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insur- ance; such authorization is granted after the bona fides and the legality of the transaction have been established. List No. 1 comprises the following transactions: (1) direct invest- ment of foreign capital in activities of recognized interest for Portugal's development, and direct investment of Portuguese capital abroad if such capital is not considered essential to Portugal's own development; (2) transfers of amounts resulting f rom the liquidation of direct investments in Portugal, provided that the original investment repre- sented an inward movement of capital; (3) personal transfers for purposes of emigration (not to exceed Esc 100,000), for repatriation of nationals of OECD countries (not to exceed Esc 500,000 a year for a f am i ly ), for legacies and dowries (amounts in excess of Esc 500,000 a year require special approva l), for gifts to relatives (not to exceed Esc 20,000 a yea r ), and in respect of l i fe insurance policies; (4) inward movements of capital resulting f rom the sale by a resident of metro- politan Portugal of securities in another OECD country, provided that the transaction conforms to Portuguese exchange control regula- tions; (5) commercial credits for periods of between one and five years in which a resident participates and provided that they are not granted by a credit institution; and (6) repayment of commercial and financial credits. Transactions specified in List No. 2 re fer to private capital move- ments between metropolitan Portugal and other member countries of the OECD for which no prior authorization is required under current Portuguese exchange control regulations. These cover the following categories: (1) the liquidation in Portugal of direct invest- ments belonging to a resident of another OECD country; (2) the physical movement of domestic and foreign securities between Portugal and other OECD countries; and (3) the purchase of foreign securities 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL in OECD countries by residents of Portugal, provided that the funds do not belong to a credit institution domiciled in Portugal and that they do not have to be surrendered to such an institution. Residents may sell their foreign securities in OECD countries for convertible currencies or for OECD currencies that are either transferable into domestic currency or available for reinvestment. They may either reinvest the sale proceeds or transfer them to other residents of Portugal; or they may conduct arbitrage operations in such securities between two markets in other OECD countries or between a domestic and a foreign market. All other capital movements require specific approval, and if they exceed Esc 10 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance is required. Changes during 1961 March 16. Settlements related to trade with the Spanish Monetary Area could be made in U.S. dollars and European Monetary Agreement currencies, except that import payments could not be made in escudos. (Previously, settlements with this area could be made only in escudos through a special clearing account.) March 29. Portugal became a member of the International Monetary Fund. August 80. It was announced that, in accordance with a payments agreement of May 18,1961 with the United Arab Republic, settlements with that country would be made through special accounts in U.S. dollars, instead of in Egyptian pounds through Export Accounts. September 12. The limit up to which remittances of capital would be authorized for nationals of OEEC countries returning to their country of origin was increased from Esc 350,000 to Esc 500,000 a year for a fam i ly. Similarly, the limit for legacies and dowries was raised from Esc 300,000 to Esc 500,000. September 14. The freedom f rom import licensing granted to imports of most goods valued at less than Esc 2,500 f rom OEEC countries and their associated territories was extended to similar imports from Canada and the United States. September 19. Transfers of capital to OEEC countries in connection with the following transactions were freed of restrictions and added to the capital transfers specified in List No. 1: (1) gifts in favor of relatives, up to a maximum of Esc 20,000 per annum; (2) commercial credits with maturities of between one and five years, in which a resident of Portugal participates; and (3) repayment of commercial and financial credits. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RHODESIA AND NYASALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Rhodesia and Nyasaland Pound 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland stands ready in transactions with authorized banks to buy and sell Rhodesian pounds against sterling at par, subject to a small commission. The authorized banks in the Federation base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. Import and export licensing is handled by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; but certain agricultural products require import licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Power is the authority for licensing imports of radioactive substances. Prescription of Currency The Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is a member of the Sterling Area, and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Rhodesian pounds, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by residents of the Federation to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or Rhodesian pounds to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in sterling or Rhodesian pounds from an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Rhodesian pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of other Sterling Area currencies, with authorized payments by residents of the Federa- tion, and with transfers f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, used to pay residents of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, or trans- ferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RHODESIA AND NYASALAND Accounts in Rhodesian pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency by non- residents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency from the authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Some items are subject to import license regardless of the country of origin.1 Imports of all other goods originating in the Sterling Area are free of license or, if originating in certain other countries,2 may be imported freely under an open general license, which also permits the import of certain petroleum products and a few other items from any source, as well as the import of specified commodities of Japanese origin. All other imports are subject to individual import license. Certain commodities originating in Japan are licensed freely or are subject to annual quotas. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control, as is also exchange up to certain limits for other purposes, such as travel. The exchange allowance for travel, £300 for an adult and £150 for a child under 12 years of age, may be accumulated over the two preced- 1 Certain agricultural products, radioactive materials, gold, explosives, certain new (military type) and used clothing, bags made of ju te fiber (excluding hessian bags), sugar, wheaten flour, white phosphorous matches, flick knives, arms and ammunition, game traps, live animals and animal trophies, live birds, fish, and secondhand accounting machines. 2 Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroun, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (Brazzaville), Congo (Leopoldville), Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, and Vatican City. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RHODESIA AND NYASALAND ing years and the current year, making a maximum total travel allow- ance of £900 for adults and £450 for children. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Travelers may not, without permission, take out more than £20 in Federal currency notes and/or foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported free ly; but certain commodities are subject to export license, mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.8 Export proceeds in foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £20 in Federal currency notes may be brought in. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward transfer of capital to the Federation. The outward transfer of capital is subject to control, but residents of countries outside the Federation are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from external sources. In general, residents of the Federation are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents of the Federation may purchase securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of the sub- sequent disposal of these securities the sale proceeds are repatriated to the Federation. All income earned from these investments must be remitted to the Federation. 8 Implements of war, ju te and j u te products, lead in any fo rm, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, flick knives, and certain agricultural products. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RHODESIA AND NYASALAND Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: £1,000 for a single person; £1,500 for a married couple; £1,750 for a married couple with one ch i ld; and £2,000 for a married couple with two or more children. Emigrants over the age of 50 are entitled to an initial exchange allow- ance of £5,000; and in this case, as well as in those mentioned above, a similar sum may be transferred on the first anniversary of departure from the Federation. Changes during 1961 January 1. The Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Order, 1960, came into force. It consolidated the provisions of previous legislation on this subject, and also provided for the revocation of licenses and their nontransferability. February 22. The import of Federal currency notes was prohibited. February 24. To prevent the outflow of capital owned by residents of the Federation, the Currency and Exchange Control (Temporary) Act, 1961, was introduced, extending exchange control to payments and transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area. However, on proof of their nonresident status, nonresidents could continue to remit their capital abroad. Authorized banks were given power to sanction current payments up to certain limits, and it was announced that applications for sums in excess of these limits would be granted if the exchange control authorities were satisfied that the foreign exchange was needed for genuine current payments. March 8. The prohibition of February 22, 1961 on the import of Federal currency notes was removed and replaced by the provisions of the Currency and Exchange Control (Temporary) Regulations, by which travelers could import or export Federal currency notes not exceeding £5. March 17. The amount of Federal currency notes which travelers could import or export was increased to £10. April 7. The open general license for imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area was amended to make it applicable to Argentina and the newly independent A f r ican Republics, and to a number of com- modities of Japanese origin which had previously been either prohibited or subject to quotas. August 11. The amount of Federal currency notes that could be taken in or out of the Federation by travelers was increased from £10 to £20. December 21. The travel and emigrants' allowances were increased. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUANDA-URUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is Rwanda-Burundi Francs 50.00 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Issue (Banque d'Emission du Rwanda et du Burundi), with some authority delegated to the commercial banks. Import licenses are issued by the Chief of the Service of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency In general, outgoing payments may be made in any currency. All receipts must be obtained in convertible currency. However, trans- actions with the Congo and the U.S.S.R. are settled through bilateral clearing accounts maintained with authorized banks in Belgium. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts, which are not related to the country of residence of the account holder, are in practice opened only in Rwanda- Burundi francs. Approval is required to open such accounts, except for emigrants. Nonresident accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of Ruanda-Urundi which the latter are allowed to accept in Rwanda-Burundi francs. Transfers abroad f rom these accounts are subject to individual license f rom the Bank of Issue. Imports and Import Payments All imports require a form described as an "import license and payment authorization," which must be approved by the Chief of the Service of Economic A f fa i rs and by the Bank of Issue. Such approval is given liberally. Open general licenses may be issued for certain goods. Payments for imports must con fo rm to the general authorizations of the Bank of Issue. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles must be made through authorized banks and require the approval of the Bank of Issue, which is given liberally. Foreigners residing in Ruanda-Urundi may, by special authorization, transfer periodically part of their salaries or professional incomes at the following rates: employees, 50 per cent of gross salary; self- employed persons, 50 per cent of taxable income af ter taxes, in monthly 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUANDA-URUNDI installments of not more than RBF 50,000. There is a travel allowance for residents of RBF 1,000 a person annua l ly; for business travel the allowance is RBF 1,000 a person daily for the duration of the trip. Travelers may take out the amount of foreign or domestic currency which they declared on their entry into Ruanda-Urund i. Exports and Export Proceeds For all exports, an "exchange encashment declaration" must be lodged with an authorized bank before the goods are shipped. Exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered. Gold producers in Ruanda- Urundi may sell, through a Cooperative Society of Producers of Congo Gold, up to 90 per cent of their production of fine gold either abroad or, for medical, industrial, or artistic purposes, to residents; the remainder must be sold to the Bank of Issue. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic currency. Declaration on entry is required only if the traveler intends to take the currency with him on departure. Capital Applications on behalf of nonresidents to remit abroad the proceeds of disinvestments are considered liberally. The amount of dividends and profits that may be t rans fe r red is based on net profits, taking into account the amortization schedule of the enterprise, allocations to reserves, and yearly business turnover figures. Personal transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality are allowed up to RBF 100,000. Other transfers of capital abroad are, in general, prohibited. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place du r ing 1961. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Saudi Arabian Riyals 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting f rom government subsidy, are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on incom ing or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place dur ing 1961. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is South A f r ican Rand 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are uniform and are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 199.75 buying, and R 200.75 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar as at December 30, 1961 were US$1.40% buying, and US$1.39% selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Basutoland, Bechuana land, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresi- dents of South A f r i c a. Otherwise, there are no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South A f r ica, South West Africa, Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and these territories are regarded as fo rm ing with the Republic of South Africa a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce and Indus- tries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South Afr ican Reserve Bank, which in turn has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. i ln the South Afr ican exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, CFA (Malagasy) francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries out- side South A f r ica, South West A f r ica, Basutoland, Swaziland, and Bechuanaland (except with respect to the Blocked Accounts of resi- dents of the last three territories—see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into three categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds of sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South A f r ican resi- dents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South A f r i c a; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South A f r ica. External Accounts are held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents to countries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers f rom other External Accounts in South Africa and from External Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country conce rned ); and with the proceeds of sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of specified currencies (see foot- note 1). They may be debited for payments to South A f r ican residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling A rea; for purchases of any non-sterling currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Blocked Accounts represent the proceeds of sales of South Afr ican securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South A f r ica or to another Blocked Account in South A f r ica, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in other securities quoted on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. If invested in Govern- ment, Municipal, or Public Utility Stocks, the proceeds on redemption at maturity are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA that the securities had at least five years to run to maturity at the date of purchase. Assets of emigrants in excess of R 10,000 per family, the proceeds of legacies beyond R 20,000 per beneficiary, and the proceeds of South African securities brought in by immigrants are similarly blocked. In the case of securities brought in by immigrants, the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed from sufficient funds to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresi- dents is freely transferable to the monetary area of the owner. Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods subject to import license must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow importation of a range of commodities, but they are in general to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include all goods imported f rom, produced in, or manufac tured in the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. The Import Control Regulations for 1962 distinguish the following categories: (1) Goods that may be imported without import license. (2) Raw materials, machinery, agricultural equipment, and pharma- ceutical products that may be imported only under licenses to be allo- cated (a) in the case of merchants who import the goods for resale, according to such quotas as may be authorized from time to time, the initial 1962 allocation being equal to 50 per cent of the licenses issued during the first eight months of 1960; and (b) in the case of manu- facturers who require the goods for processing in their own factories, on the basis of their "full reasonable requirements." In the determina- tion of import facilities, cognizance will be taken of the availability of such goods locally. (3) Motorcars and other vehicles and component parts that may be imported only under licenses to be issued in accordance with quotas to be authorized from time to time. (4) Consumer and other goods that may be imported only under licenses to be allocated generally on the basis of quotas, as follows: (a) for Group A commodities, including consumer goods of a type not available locally, the initial 1962 allocation of quotas equals 50 per cent of the 1960 allocations granted up to August 31,1960; (b) for "general merchandise" items in Group B, including consumer goods of a type 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA available locally, the initial 1962 allocation equals 25 per cent of the importer's assessment basis (originally this basis was imports in 1948, but it has been adjusted to take account of the entry of new firms and increased turnover of existing firms); (c) for rice, the initial 1962 quota allocation equals 50 per cent of 1960 imports; and (d) for hand-knitting yarn for retail sale, the quotas are equal to 60 per cent of 1960 imports. (5) A restricted list of goods the import of which requires a license specifically describing the item to be imported. Such licenses may be obtained by the surrender of Group B licenses on the basis of R 2 surrendered for R 1 of specific license obtained (after the first R 3,000 of an importer's annual quota, which may be converted on the basis of R 1 for R 1), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific license fa ll within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original license. Group A licenses may be exchanged for Group B licenses on the basis of R 2 for R 1, or for specific licenses on the basis of R 4 for R 1. Licenses are also required for imports of built-up motorcars, whether new or used, with a retail list price exceeding R 1,900 when new, juke boxes, pin tables, novelty tables, and amusement machines, and certain books and periodicals (comics, science fiction, detective magazines, e tc . ), and their import is virtually prohibited. Upon presentation to his bank of an import license or, where an import license is not required, evidence of importation, an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transaction there is no limitation of amount; for others authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are granted. The basic allowance for tourist travel for an adult is R 20 a day, with a maximum of R 1,000 in the calendar yea r; for a child under the age of 12 it is R 8 a day, with a maximum of R 400 in the calendar year. Exchange for bona fide business trips abroad is limited to R 30 a person daily 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA for a maximum period of 60 days; applications for larger amounts are considered by the Reserve Bank. The cost of transport fares abroad may be paid in rand. Persons leaving South Afr ica may take out freely R 100 in South African Reserve Bank notes and the equivalent of R 100 in other notes, in addition to the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Afr ica within 12 months a f ter arrival may take with them any reasonable amount of fore ign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange which they brought to and exchanged in South A f r ica. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, are subject to export license irrespective of desti- nation (with the exception of exports to Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, possession, protectorate, or mandated ter- ritory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is con- trolled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months f rom the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Remittance of the proceeds of repatriated South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes depends on the furnishing of satisfactory evidence that they were not exported in contravention of the exchange control regulations. Capital The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out directly by the authorized banks without reference to the South Afr ican Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16,1961 or, if the stocks have been acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they have been 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments; transfers to nonresident owners of small unutilized balances, up to R 50, left over from the reinvestment of blocked funds; transfers of up to R 20,000 per nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South A f r i c a; and transfers of up to R 10,000 for a fam i ly unit as settling-in allowances for emigrants. Most other withdrawals of capital invested in South A f r ica require approval by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank. The Bank may approve transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Approval is not usually given for the transfer of the proceeds of sales of shares or other securities (see Blocked Accounts in the section on Nonresident Accounts, above), or for the trans- fe r, by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries, of open or loan account balances or undistributed profits received or earned prior to January 1, 1960, or for the transfer of any dividends by them where the remittance involves the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emi- grants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents in general require approval of the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges is not permitted, although South A f r ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South A f r i c an owned or controlled projects may be allowed by the South A f r ican Reserve Bank, but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to the Federation from being used as a first step in the onward t rans fer of capital to other countries. Changes during 1961 January 1. Under the 1961 licensing policy for imports, the customary advance allocations were to be lower than those for 1960. The "free list" was slightly reduced by the transfer of circular knitted piece goods to the "full reasonable requirements" group. For raw materials, capital goods, and Group A goods in the "full reasonable requirements" cate- gory, the preliminary allocation was fixed at 50 per cent of the 1960 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA licenses issued up to August 31, 1960. Under the original announce- ment, vehicles and parts, except for passenger cars valued at more than R 1,600, were to continue to be licensed on a sales replacement basis, but with consideration given to stocks on hand; by the opening of the year, however, a quota system involving a 15 per cent cut had been decided. Finally, the initial quota allocation for Group B "general merchandise" was set at 25 per cent of the importer's assessment basis (compared with an initial allocation of 40 per cent for 1960). February 14- The South African rand became the unit of currency, replacing the South Afr ican pound on a basis of £SA 1 = R 2. April 17. It was announced that for Group A consumer goods there would be a further 25 per cent allocation (ultimately, allocations totaled 75 per cent of the average of licenses issued for these goods for 1959 and 1960), and that for Group B consumer goods there would be a further 10 per cent allocation (bringing the total to 35 per cent of the assessment basis). For raw materials and capital equipment, additional issues of licenses would be made in the light of actual requirements and existing stocks. May 4- In an announcement concerning import policy, it was stated that applications for licenses to import raw materials and capital goods would henceforth be closely scrutinized to ascertain to what extent the goods were available locally. Textile piece goods were removed from the "free list" and placed under licensing control, along with other raw materials. Certain consumer goods regarded as luxuries or as available locally in adequate quantities were placed on a restricted list and could be imported only if permits valid for Group B "general merchandise" were surrendered on the basis of R 3 surrendered for R 1 of the specific licenses received in return. It was also stated that the policy with respect to motor vehicles, as it would affect the second half of the year, was being re-examined. May 4- The basic tourist allowance was reduced from R 2,500 a trip to R 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of R 1,000 in the calendar year; for a child under the age of 12, the allowance was reduced from R 1,250 a trip to R 8 a day, with a maximum of R 400 in the calendar year. The settling-in allowance for emigrants was reduced from R 20,000 to R 10,000 for a fam i ly, and the value of any assets held abroad would be deducted f rom this figure. A limit of R 20,000 per beneficiary was reimposed on the proceeds of legacies which could be transferred to nonresident beneficiaries from estates in South Africa. For both heirs and emigrants, any remaining capital would be blocked in South A f r ica but the income and dividends thereon would be trans- ferable. It was also announced that stricter control would be exercised 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA over the transfer of capital by South Afr ican residents and that it was intended soon to require residents to declare their foreign assets. May 5. In the circular implementing the new measures affecting invisibles and capital payments (see May 4, above), it was also pro- vided that exchange for bona fide business trips abroad would again be limited to R 30 a person daily for a maximum period of 60 days. The authorized banks' authority to make special allotments for persons of executive and managerial rank was withdrawn. The maximum amount of banknotes which could be exported by travelers was reduced f rom R 200 to R 40 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes and from R 200 to R 20 in foreign banknotes. May 8. The limits on the export of banknotes (see May 5, above) were raised to R 100. May 8. The authorized banks7 authority to approve applications for maintenance remittances, etc., was reduced from R 200 for each remittance to R 100 a month. The previous limit of R 200 on the issue of foreign money and postal orders by the Post Office was reduced to R 50 and a check was to be made on the frequency of application. May 27. The remittance of the proceeds of repatriated South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes was again made dependent on the furnishing of satisfactory evidence that the notes had not been exported in contra- vention of the exchange control regulations. June 5. It was announced that the initial (25 per cent) issue of Group B "general merchandise" licenses could be exchanged for specific licenses needed to import commodities on the restricted list on the basis of R 2 for R 1. For the second (10 per cent) allocation, the basis would continue to be R 3 for R 1. June 6. Motor vehicle quotas announced for the second half of the year involved a reduction below the imports allowed in the first ha l f. June 7. The exchange control authorities withdrew the facilities for the transfer of certain blocked funds held in South Afr ica by non- residents of the Sterling Area to the United Kingdom for credit to a Blocked Sterling Account. June 16. South Afr ican residents were prohibited from remitting funds for the purchase of South African or Rhodesian securities on the London or Bulawayo (Southern Rhodesia) Stock Exchanges —remit- tances which had previously been allowed. If a nonresident sold securi- ties in South Afr ica, the proceeds would be blocked—instead of being transferable abroad as had previously been possible with respect to securities endorsed as "transferable." Such proceeds could be reinvested in other securities quoted on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA dividends thereon would continue to be freely transferable. Open and loan account balances and all undistributed profits of South A f r ican subsidiaries of foreign companies would be regarded as having been capitalized as at December 31, 1959, and, in general, only the transfer of dividends earned subsequently would be permitted. Similarly, appli- cations for dividend remittances involving the use of South A f r ican credit facilities would have to be referred to the South Afr ican Reserve Bank. It was also announced that stricter control would be exercised over the outflow of South A f r ican resident capital to the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, in order to prevent remittances to the Federation f rom being used as the first step in the onward transfer of capital to other countries. July 1. It was announced that, for the purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaziland were to be regarded as nonresidents. It was also stated that, as in the past, all applications for the transfer of repayments on loans granted by nonresidents to residents must be referred to the South African Reserve Bank, and would be considered in the light of the contractual obligations under the loan and the availability of cash funds in the hands of, and the extent of local borrowing by, the debtor. July 6. It was announced that while blocking procedures were applied to nonresident-owned mortgage bonds and/or participation in mortgage bonds, authorized banks could refer to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank applications for the t rans fer of repayments on such bonds registered in favor of the nonresident prior to June 16, 1961, if the repayment was due on a date fixed in terms of the bond. Further, the proceeds on redemption of maturing Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks could be transferred freely to a nonresident holder, provided that, if purchased with blocked funds, the stocks had at least five years to run to maturity at the date of purchase. (A clari- fication on July 18 indicated that proceeds of such stocks could be transferred freely on maturity to any holder, other than an emigrant, who had owned them continuously since June 16, 1961.) July 24- South A f r ican stockbrokers were allowed to engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. September 25. Authorized banks were allowed to permit normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments, and to transfer abroad small unutilized balances, up to R 50, arising from the purchase of shares with blocked funds. November 13. The import control policy for 1962 was announced; it contained certain changes of detail. A system of fixed quotas was to be 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA reintroduced for raw materials, machinery, agricultural equipment, and pharmaceutical products imported by merchant importers. This was, however, intended to simplify administrative procedure and not to represent a tightening of import controls. Advance allocations for this category, as well as for Group A and Group B consumer goods, would be similar to those in 1961. Items on the restricted list were to be described more exactly, and the required licenses could be obtained by exchange of Group B licenses on the basis of R 1 for R 1 for the first R 3,000 of the allocation and R 2 for R 1 thereafter. Special arrange- ments would apply with respect to certain commodities. November 21. It was announced that securities brought in by immi- grants after June 16,1961, which had been and continued to be classed as nonresident-owned, would not normally be considered for conversion to resident status be fo re the party concerned had been resident in South A f r ica for at least three years (see also December 27, below). November 24. Authorized banks were notified of arrangements under which South A f r ican residents were now to repatriate external holdings of cash and other liquid assets. December 27. The authorized banks were advised that the South Afr ican Reserve Bank would release f rom blocking sufficient proceeds of shares sold to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet his current living expenses (see November 21, above). 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par value is Spanish Pesetas 60.00 = US$1. The official limits are Pts 59.55 buying, and Pts 60.45 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified currencies1 vary between limits resulting from the dollar rate for the peseta in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rates applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and forward transactions up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and the Spanish towns and provinces in Afr ica constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, and on a technical administrative level, by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and the General Department of Foreign Trade—both in the Ministry of Commerce—and authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Balances on the accounts with Greece and Turkey are settled monthly. 1 These currencies are, in addition to UJ3. dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Mexico, Morocco, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkey, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident account: external accounts in convertible pesetas and external accounts in internal pesetas. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that market, and with proceeds from the sale of Greek or Turkish agreement dollars; with authorized current pay- ments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign currencies, or in Greek or Turkish agreement dollars; with t rans fe rs f rom other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for payments for Spanish exports; for invest- ments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions, salaries, profits, and dividends obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transferable; with receipts f rom the National Lottery, obtained through participations purchased with funds from such an account; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses of the account holder in Spain, and for the purchase of government bonds. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute. Imports and Import Payments All imports require either an import license or an "import declara- tion" issued by the General Department of Foreign Trade. "Import declarations" are issued freely for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts) included in an import free list that applies to most countries3 with which Spain has no bilateral payments agree- ments. All other imports are subject to license. There are global quotas 8 Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories; and Australia, Burma, Canada, Ceylon, Chile, Dominican Republic, Finland, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Malaya, New Zealand, Pakistan, Panama, South Africa, Tunisia, United States, and Venezuela. Bolivia is also de facto included in this list. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN for specified imports f rom countries to which the free list applies. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresi- dents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. For many items, the banks are authorized to effect the transfer under conditions established by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute. A large pro- portion of invisibles is authorized without restriction; some of the remainder are subject to certain limitations, while a few others are severely restricted. Rents, interest on debentures, mortgages, etc., and income f rom investment not recognized as having economic and social priority, as well as dividends on transferable securities issued by Spanish companies, may be transferred without restriction up to a limit of 6 per cent a year of the amount invested. Income from invest- ments made be fo re July 27,1959 may be transferred without restriction to OECD countries; on the basis of the provisions of the agreement to countries with which Spain has bilateral payments agreements; and up to 8 per cent when due to other countries. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Other insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of Pts 16,500 a person for tourist travel. For business travel, exchange is made available up to the equivalent of Pts 750 a day for a maximum of 30 days for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute for additional exchange, which is granted liberally for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Pts 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the General Department of Foreign Trade. With certain exceptions, licenses are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute through authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute through author- 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN ized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Pts 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital All incoming capital representing foreign investment in Spanish enterprises and investment in real estate is subject to detailed regula- tions. Capital may be imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange, capital goods, patents, knowhow, and some other forms. Registration with the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute is necessary if the investment is to receive the established treatment for the remittance abroad of income (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above) and of principal. Under the Foreign Investment Law of July 27, 1959, the principal (plus any capital appreciation) of new investments recognized as having economic and social priority may be repatriated, as a rule, within a period of two years starting two years a f ter the investment was made. The principal (but not capital appreciation) of new invest- ments not recognized as having priority may be repatriated within a period of four years starting two years after the investment was made. Participation in Spanish enterprises is authorized freely up to a limit of 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise; beyond this limit it is subject to special authorization by the Council of Ministers. Investment in Spanish companies dealing with oil, banking, insurance, mining, motion pictures, and shipping is governed by the Foreign Investment Law of July 27, 1959 only for matters not covered by other legislation to which they remain subject. In addition, invest- ments exceeding Pts 2 million are subject to the general procedure applicable to all investments in Spain. This procedure includes an administrative authorization f rom the competent ministry, which is granted on a selective basis and therefore involves restriction. The purchase by nonresidents of shares in Spanish companies (excluding those in the fields to which the law of July 27, 1959 does not apply or which are sub ject to special legislation) is permitted without restriction up to a max imum of 50 per cent of the capital of such companies, but the shares must be acquired with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting f rom the sale of foreign exchange in the Spanish exchange market. Nonresident holders of shares of Spanish companies are allowed to transfer abroad at any time proceeds derived from the sale of such shares, up to the amount of the original purchase price. These proceeds may also be used for further purchases of shares. Peseta proceeds f rom the sale of shares over and above the amount of the original purchase price may also be used to purchase shares, in which case earnings may be transferred up to a maximum of 6 per cent of the capital annually. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN The export of capital belonging to residents is subject to prior authorization, which is always granted provided that it contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports, that it does not imply any unfa ir competition for such exports, and that there exist guarantees for the repatriation of profits and capital. Changes during 1961 January 1. Certain commodities were added to the import free list. The list of global quotas was also changed. January 2. The Finnish markka was included among the currencies listed in the Spanish exchange market. March 2. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded between the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and the Deutsche Notenbank of Eastern Germany. March 17. The annual exchange allowance for tourist travel was raised to the equivalent of Pts 16,500 a person. April 1. Certain commodities were added to the import free list. The list of global quotas was also changed. April 12. The bilateral payments agreement with Tunisia was terminated. April 28. It was established that income from investments that had been made before July 27, 1959 could be transferred to countries other than the OEEC countries and bilateral payments agreement countries, up to 8 per cent. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Chile was ter- minated. July 20. In accordance with the establishment of external con- vertibility for the peseta, regulations were issued providing for nonresident accounts in convertible pesetas and in internal pesetas. July 26. Authorized banks were allowed to operate in foreign mar- kets for spot transactions and for forward transactions up to 180 days. August 2. Chile, Finland, and Tunisia were added to the list of countries to which the import free list applies. September 1. Certain commodities were added to the import free list. The list of global quotas was also changed.4 4 Further additions to the February 15, 1962. import free list were made with effect from 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Sudanese Pound 1 = US$2.87156. Official rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan, whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.974 buying, and LSd 0.976 selling, per £ stg. 1. The banks deal with the public at rates between LSd 0.9695 buying, and LSd 0.9785 selling, per £ stg. 1. Official rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, based on market quotations in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by authorized banks. Licensing of imports and exports is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Supply, but all licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities or by the authorized banks under the powers delegated to them. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries1 are normally settled in Suda- nese pounds through the relevant Bilateral Account; however, except for transactions with the United Arab Republic, some noncommercial invisibles have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency; receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any Convertible Account or in U.S. dollars, External Account sterling, or any other convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in Sudanese pounds of residents of all countries other than bilateral countries are designated Convertible Accounts and are exchangeable into any foreign currency. Bilateral Accounts are used for most transactions with countries with which the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements.1 1The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, and the United Arab Republic. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Imports and Import Payments A wide range of goods, inc lud ing such essential items as tea, grey cloth and other textiles, and raw ma ter ia ls for domestic industries, may be imported under an open general license, which is designed to permit imports of these goods freely f rom any source. However, before entering into firm contracts with foreign suppliers, importers must register such imports with the Ministry of Commerce, stating the quality, quantity, and value of the goods, and there are a few limita- tions, e.g., a reduction in the amount endorsed for registration in order to avoid unnecessary overstocking, or rejection of endorsement when the price of the import is considered unduly high. Goods not covered by the open general license require ind iv idual import licenses. Imports f rom Israel and, since April 24, 1960, f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Exchange appropriate to the country of origin of the goods is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances within reasonable limits are permitted for family maintenance, education and medical expenses, and assistance to close relatives. Foreign nationals are also permitted to remit reasonable amounts of current savings to their own countries. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. Travel expenses for tourism and other purposes are authorized up to the equivalent of LSd 100 for each adult, and LSd 25 for each child, annually. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports f rom the Sudan are subject to license, to surrender of the proceeds, and to certain regulations governing the credit terms that can be extended to fore ign buyers. Export licensing is quite liberal. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank within six months a f ter export. Exports on credit are limited by the six-month surrender requirement, as well as by specific regulations governing consignment sales. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. Capital Under a law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,000 to their new country. Resident foreigners may transfer on emigration from the Sudan up to the equivalent of LSd 7,000. Changes during 1961 March 1. The bilateral payments provision of the agreement with Yugoslavia was replaced by one providing for settlements in sterling. March 8. Imports of aluminum and enamel articles, matches, paints, and buttons were made subject to individual license. July 16. Lorries of all kinds, buses and other public transport vehicles, box cars, and land rovers were added to the list of goods which may be imported under open general license. November 7. Imports of aspirin tablets, plastic shoes, and tanned hides and skins were made subject to individual license. December 21. Radios were added to the list of goods which may be imported under open general license. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is Surinam Guilders 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for practically all current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in convertible currencies;1 payments to and f rom the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or in Surinam guilders. Payments to and f rom the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Netherlands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold accounts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Imports and Import Payments A few agricultural commodities are subject to import quotas; all other imports are free of restriction. No licenses are required for making payments in foreign currency through banks in respect of imports, including c.i.f. shipments by means of letters of credit, sight d ra f ts, or on a c.o.d. basis. For imports made by other means, exchange is granted on application, subject to verification of facts, the import license, where required, serving as a payment license. Payments for Invisibles Payments up to specified amounts on account of certain services (contracts, advertising expenses, authors' royalties, subscriptions, film rentals, insurance premiums other than for l i fe insurance, reinsurance 1 In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, British West Indies dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM premiums, fam i ly maintenance, education and tourism expenses, and g i f ts ), and payments connected with passenger transportation, may be made through authorized banks. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an appli- cation supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Control Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports are f ree of license, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an author- ized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manufacture of plywood and particle board may be exported only in special cir- cumstances. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring into Surinam domestic and foreign currency without limit. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. It also provides for the transfer of profits. An Investment Law passed on February 3,1960 provides for additional incentives to private foreign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in quotas of 20 per cent annually. Licenses are granted on application for transfers abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000 annually. The repatriation of personal assets belonging to departing persons, includ- ing emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Transfers for investment in foreign securities by residents are not permitted, although exception may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place during 1961. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange Rate System The par value is Swedish Kroner 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank's official limits for the U.S. dollar are SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1, and the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for certain European currencies1 fluctuate between limits resulting from the Swedish krona rate for the dollar in relation to the dollar rates of the other currencies concerned. Forward market rates for these currencies are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the National Board for Foreign Trade Licenses or, in the case of foodstuffs, the National Agricultural Marketing Board. All payments to and from nonresidents must in principle be made through one of the 15 Swedish authorized banks, which have been given wide powers by the Sveriges Riksbank to approve payments. The Riksbank receives individual reports on receipts f rom invisibles and a few exports and on payments for imports and invisibles, when they exceed SKr 10,000 in the case of transactions with Denmark, Finland, Iceland, and Norway, or SKr 5,000 in the case of transactions with other countries. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries2 and the convertible area (all other countries). Payments to residents of bilateral countries must be made in the currency of, or by crediting kronor to a Bilateral Account related to, the country concerned. Receipts f rom bilateral countries may be accepted in any currency of the convertible area or in kronor through a Bilateral Account of the country concerned or any Con- vertible Account. Payments to residents of the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kronor to any Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Receipts from countries in the convertible area may be accepted in any currency of that area or in kroner to the debit of any Convertible Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident account held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular (i.e., current) Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Regular Accounts include Bilateral Accounts, held by residents of countries with which Sweden has bilateral payments arrangements (see footnote 2 ), and Convertible Accounts, held by residents of all other countries. Convertible Accounts may also be held by residents of bilateral countries, e.g., in cases where the amounts credited to such accounts emanate from other Convertible Accounts or from the sale of currencies of the convertible area. Convertible Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Convertible Accounts, with authorized payments to the convertible area by residents of Sweden, and with sales of currencies of the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and exchanged into any foreign currency. Bilateral Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Bilateral Accounts of the same country or from any Convertible Account, with authorized payments by residents of Sweden, and with sales of currencies of the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Bilateral Accounts of the same country, exchanged into the currency of that country, and debited for authorized payments to residents of Sweden from residents of the country of the account holder. Replenishment of Regular Accounts with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances on the accounts. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by Swedish emigrants. They may be used freely to cover the holder's and his family's living expenses in Sweden and for investment in Swedish bonds quoted on the Swedish stock exchange. Bonds purchased in this way and proceeds therefrom must be deposited in a "restricted securities" account with an author- ized bank or stockbroker. Imports and Import Payments Practically all goods may be imported freely, only a marginal fraction being subject to license. Licenses, where required, are generally granted on a nonrestrictive and nondiscriminatory basis. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Technically, the import regime is administered through three liberali- zation lists, one of which is of only minor importance. The other two refer to agricultural and industrial items, respectively, and both are applicable to all countries except those few belonging to the Sino-Soviet bloc or having a bilateral quota agreement with Sweden. In respect of a small number of agricultural items, the liberalization applies only to the OEEC area,3 Finland, and Yugoslavia. Payments for all imports, including normal advance payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below), may be made freely through the authorized banks and —except for imports f rom Hungary —without the formality of presenting an import license, if such is required, to the bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for all current invisibles may be made freely through the authorized banks, but for three categories of pay- ment, the approval of the Riksbank is necessary when certain established limits are exceeded. These are (1) tourist expenses exceed- ing SKr 6,000 a person for any one journey, (2) payment of insurance premiums exceeding SKr 1,000 a year, under life, pension, or annuity contracts with foreign companies signed after January 1, 1959, and (3) certain advance payments for imports and ship disbursements exceeding SKr 50,000 or, in the case of contractual payment for imports of machinery, exceeding one third of the total value. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered individually by the Sveriges Riksbank. Each person leaving Sweden may take with him freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins up to a maximum of SKr 6,000. Non- residents leaving Sweden may, in addition, freely export foreign bank- notes and other means of payment brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to practically all countries in the convertible area and many exports to bilateral countries are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from exports of goods (as well as from invisibles) do not have to be surrendered; they may 8 The OEEC area is defined by the Swedish authorities to include the member countries of the former OEEC, their dependent territories, the countries of the Sterling Area and of the Belgian, French, Italian, Netherlands, Portuguese, and Spanish currency areas, Congo (Leopoldville), Indonesia, Iraq, and Somalia. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Each person entering Sweden may bring in a maximum of SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and other means of payment without limitation. Capital Investments in Sweden by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is normally granted where direct investments are concerned. Transfers from Sweden on account of dividends and other earnings on investments, interest on loans, and contractual amortiza- tion of bonds and debentures are permitted freely. Inheritances due to nonresidents may also be transferred. The repatriation of other nonresident-owned capital is subject to approval, which is, however, usually granted. Emigrants may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of SKr 100,000 for each person, on special application. Requests by residents to transfer capital abroad for direct invest- ment are considered on their merits and are in most cases approved. Residents may, on special application, transfer capital abroad for the purchase for recreational purposes of real estate of a maximum value of SKr 50,000. Transfers of capital abroad for portfolio investment are permitted only exceptionally. Securities may be imported into Sweden through the intermediary of an authorized bank; however, their disposal is subject to approval. The export of securities is, in principle, also subject to approval. Residents of Sweden who own foreign securities —other than those representing a direct investment —are permitted to use within six months the proceeds from the sale of these securities abroad to invest in other foreign securities denominated in a currency of the convertible area or in Swedish kronor; these proceeds may not, however, be trans- ferred to another resident (other than an authorized bank). Residents are permitted to buy from and sell to other residents such foreign securities held in Sweden. Changes during 1961 February 21. The exchange allowance for transfers of emigrants7 capital was increased f rom SKr 75,000 to SKr 100,000 for each person. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN April 17. Residents were permitted, on special application, to transfer capital abroad for the purchase for recreational purposes of real estate to a maximum value of SKr 50,000. April 19. Simplified regulations were introduced in respect of reports by the public and the banks to the Riksbank of foreign exchange trans- actions; among other things, exchange control forms were no longer required in respect of most export proceeds. July 1. The foreign exchange ordinance was prolonged, thus con- tinuing exchange control until July 1, 1962. July 1. Export licenses were no longer required for exports of a wide range of goods, including chemicals, plastics, paper and pulp, machines, and tools, to any of the countries in the convertible area or to most of the bilateral countries. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Syrian Pounds 2.19148 — US$1; however, no transactions take place at rates based on the par value. All authorized exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official exchange rates maintained by the Exchange Office, LS 3.57 buying, and LS 3.585 selling, per US$1, and banks and authorized dealers deal with the public at rates of LS 3.5675 buying, and LS 3.5875 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control General policy is determined by the Government through the Minister of Economy, usually on the suggestions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general directives of the Council on Money and Credit. According to an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Board of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy. Authorized commercial banks are responsible for recording the exchange proceeds of exports. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports of certain goods. The usual requirement is that proceeds of major exports to all countries except those with which Syria has bilateral payments agreements1 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,2 or a stronger currency, at the exporter's choice. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of basic foods, most raw materials and equipment, and petroleum and petroleum products. Licenses are granted mainly for imports of pharmaceuticals, 1 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Ceylon, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and North Viet-Nam. 2 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC food products, paper and cardboard, spare parts for vehicles and for industry, and machinery, equipment, and raw materials needed by industry. Certain essential items may be imported without exchange allocation by the authorities. All imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Advance deposits are required for imports financed through docu- mentary credits: 15 per cent for essential items and 40 per cent for all other commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require licenses, which are granted free ly for transactions related to trade. Applications for exchange for s tudy, medical treatment, and business travel abroad, as well as for transfers of interest and profits, are considered on an individual basis, and allocations are made for amoun ts regarded as reasonable. For tourists traveling to ne ighbo r ing countries, there is an annual exchange allow- ance equivalent to LS 500, and for tourists trave l ing to Europe, the equivalent of LS 1,175. For extended stays in foreign countries by tourists and businessmen, an additional daily allowance equivalent to LS 65 may be added to these travel allowances. Nonresidents may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their income. Travelers may take out LS 25 in Syrian banknotes. Nonresidents are allowed, upon leaving, to take out the foreign exchange which they had brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Most other exports are free of license. The proceeds of certain ma jor exports to countries other than those with which there are bilateral payments agreements (see foo tno te 1) have to be obtained in "acceptable" cu r renc ies (see foo tno te 2 ), acco rd ing to destination. All export proceeds must be sold to the au thor ized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. There is no limit on the amount of foreign exchange that may be brought into the country, except that not more than LE 10 in Egyptian banknotes may be imported. Nonresidents may bring in LS 200 in Syrian banknotes, and residents LS 25. Capital Imports and exports of capital are sub ject to the prior approval of the authorities. The repatriation by nonresidents of capital in excess 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC of LS 50,000 is in general not permitted at present. Syrian nationals leaving the country permanently may transfer LS 5,000, any remaining assets being blocked. Changes during 1961 February 4- A comprehensive exchange control system was imposed by Presidential Decree, and during the ensuing ten days ministerial orders were issued implementing the decree as follows: All dealings in foreign exchange and all transactions in which nonresidents were con- cerned were prohibited unless authorized by the Ministry of Economy through the banks and authorized exchange agents. All authorized transactions would take place at rates based on the official exchange rates maintained by the Exchange Office for dealings with the banks and authorized exchange agents. The rates for the public were set at LS 3.5675 buying, and LS 3.5875 selling, per US$1. The uncontrolled free market was abolished. The exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered to authorized banks. All imports, except from Egypt, were made subject to license and quota restrictions. Quantitative limits were also placed on payments for invisibles. March 3. The annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to Europe was raised f rom LS 750 to LS 1,175. March 8. The annual exchange allowance for travel to neighboring countries was raised from LS 100 to LS 500. November 23. A decree authorized the import of certain essential items without exchange allocation by the authorities. December 20. The bilateral payments agreement with Iraq ceased to operate, and settlements with that country were placed on a con- vertible currency basis. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System No par value for the Thai Baht has been established with the Fund. There are fluctuating f ree market rates at which all authorized transactions take place. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent at these rates. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions) and take place also at the fluctuating free market rates. As at Decem- ber 30, 1961, the free rate for the U.S. dollar was B 20.80 buying, and B 20.99 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on beha lf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies. Certain imports and a few exports are sub ject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; however, payments are made largely in sterling and related cu r renc ies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident account, T rans fe rab le Accoun ts and Blocked Accounts. Transferable Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with f u n ds eligible for rem i t tance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferab le Accoun ts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. Transfers of baht to and f rom Blocked Accounts require approval, which is granted automatically for certain current payments; approval is not, however, required when the account is held for foreign d ip loma t ic entities, in terna t ional o rgan iza- tions stationed in Thailand, or Thai na t iona ls temporarily ab road. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported f ree ly; but import licenses are required for 75 listed commodities, and for most of these items licenses are not usually granted. All imports of goods originating in Ma in land China are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are sub ject to a 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports must be made by letter of credit, unless approval otherwise is given. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 3,000 in value can be cleared through the Bangkok customs or goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through other customs stations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require authorization. In general, exchange is provided freely for transactions in invisibles when the applications are supported by the documentary evidence specified in the regula- tions.1 For foreign travel and family remittances, however, the amounts of exchange that the authorized agent may sell are subject to certain maximum limits. The authorized agents may approve exchange allowances for persons traveling abroad of £ stg. 225 or US$630, or £ stg. 14/5/9 or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater. For business travel, additional foreign exchange may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. No person may take out local currency exceed- ing B 500 without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain categories of exports are subject to a licensing procedure;2 all others may be exported freely. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of charcoal or wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and for goods exceeding B 3,000 in value through the Bangkok customs or B 5,000 in value through other customs stations. This certificate assures repatriation 1A tax of 15 per cent is payable by juristic companies or partnerships on remittances of foreign exchange in respect of profits or the crediting of an account of a person abroad with profits. However, companies that declare dividends in Thailand and pay income tax on such dividends are exempt from this tax. 2 Gold, platinum, and precious stones, certain fertilizers, live cattle and other animals, maize, rice and rice products, tin metal and ores, certain other minerals, rubber, radioactive materials, and, at certain exit points, ducks' and hens' eggs. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be sold to authorized agents within seven days of receipt but not later than three months af ter the date of export. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling under the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in foreign currency not exceeding the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 or, for a family traveling under the same passport, the equivalent of US$1,000 or £ stg. 360. Capital All outward t rans fe rs of capital, including premiums on l ife insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange f rom inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferen t ial treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of October 17, 1960; this treatment can include a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings. The repatriation of capital is considered on the merits of each case. Changes during 1961 February 7. Exports of ducks' and hens7 eggs f rom the south and certain provinces in the central part of the country were made sub ject to license. February 14. The amount of fore ign currency that travelers may bring into Thailand was increased from the equivalent of B 3,000 to the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 or, for a family traveling under the same passport, US$1,000 or £ stg. 360. February 24. Import licensing of, and the payment of B 20 per kilogram on, imports of monosodium glutamate were discontinued. At the same time, the import duty on this product was raised by B 20 per kilogram. May 11. Au thor ized agents were given power to approve (1) imports and exports of goods on a consignment basis, (2) remittances of money for expenses of fore ign embassies, United Nations specialized agencies, and the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization, and (3) remit- tances of funds for expenses of Thai students abroad. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND June 12. Imports of fresh-water fish were made subject to license, for the purpose of protecting and promoting domestic fresh-water fish culture. July 10. Imports of empty steel drums with a capacity of 200 liters, and of galvanized sheets and plates of iron or steel, both plain and corrugated, with a thickness of 0.190 millimeter or less, were made subject to license. October 1. Exports of maize were made subject to license. November 20. Imports of radioactive materials were no longer subject to license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but the approval of the Atomic Power for Peace Committee was required. November 24. Imports of three-wheeled, shaft-driven motor vehicles were made subject to license f rom the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s. November 27. Imports of acetic anhydride and acetyl chloride were made subject to license f rom the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Tunisian Dinar has been established with the Fund. The official value of the dinar is 2.115880 grams of fine gold, corresponding to 0.420 dinar = 1 U.S. dollar and 1 dinar = 11.7549 new French francs. Exchange rates for currencies other than the French f ranc are fixed by the Central Bank of Tunisia, through whose inter- mediary all exchange transactions in these other currencies take place. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia, but some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Import quotas are determined by the Off ice of the Secretary of State for the Plan and for Finance, which issues import licenses and export licenses after they have been approved by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is one of the territories of the French Franc Area. For pay- ment purposes, countries are classified in four groups: (1) the French Franc A rea; (2) the bilateral group of the French Franc Area, compris- ing countries with which France has concluded payments agreements that apply also to transactions with Tunisia (Eastern Germany, Hungary, and R um a n i a ); (3) the bilateral group of Tunisia, compris- ing countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements directly (Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Iraq, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia) j1 and (4) the area of converti- bility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that a rea; with countries in the bilateral group of the French Franc Area, through the nonresident accounts maintained in accordance with the payments agreement concerned; with countries in the bilateral group of Tunisia, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Iraq, Poland, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian dinars with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement francs with Mainland China;1 and with countries in the area of convertibility, generally in convertible currencies,2 or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of 1 On March 1, 1962, a bilateral payments agreement was concluded with the United Arab Republic involving settlements through an account in clearing dollars. 2 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA residents of those countries. Exceptionally, certain commercial trans- actions with India must be settled in Indian rupees. Nonresident Accounts Accounts may be opened for residents of other parts of the French Franc Area, but all credits to these accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. For residents of other countries, the following types of account are applicable: Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales to authorized banks in Tunisia of convertible currencies (see footnote 2 ), and debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia. Transfers between these accounts may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the bilateral groups. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales to authorized banks in Tunisia of convertible currencies and with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia due from the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipa- tion of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts, which may be held by residents of any country outside the French Franc Area, are credited with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments not covered by a retransfer guar- antee. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of convertibility and between those related to the same country in the bilateral groups, or from the former to the latter. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreign persons staying temporarily in Tunisia and gainfully employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments With a few exceptions, imports originating in France or other coun- tries of the French Franc Area do not require import licenses, but payments for such imports are subject to prior authorization from the Central Bank, which limits itself to checking the bona fide character of the application. When applying for permission to make these 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA payments, importers must declare that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. Imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to individual license, valid for six months, except that liberalized goods valued at less than D 200 and certain spare parts valued at less than D 50 are free of license. Licenses are issued automatically for com- modities on a liberalization list applicable to imports from the area of convertibility. Other imports from outside the French Franc Area are licensed either on the basis of quotas in accordance with the bilateral trade agreements which Tunisia has with certain countries, or on the basis of three specific import programs —one for imports from the United States and dependencies, a second for imports f rom coun- tries in the Sterling Area (excluding the United Kingdom and its dependent territories), and a third for imports f rom any country. Under the last program, global quotas are set for such commodities as butter, canned milk, cheese, tea, coffee, and cotton cloth. Import quotas are distributed among applicants in proportion to their actual past imports f rom the countries concerned. There is also a list of prohibited imports, for which licenses may be granted on an ad hoc basis; in some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. All import documents involving payment must be recorded with an authorized bank. For imports of most consumer goods, a certain per- centage of the value of the import (25, 50, or 100 per cent, according to the luxury character of the goods concerned) must be held in a blocked account for two months. This obligation arises at the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank. Provided that the appropriate documentation is submitted, this approval is given for payments for most current transactions, includ- ing the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest due to nonresi- dents. In addition to the exchange allowances for travel outlined below, payments in respect of such items as business travel and family maintenance are approved up to certain limits. Residents leaving Tunisia for other parts of the French Franc Area may benefit from a basic exchange allocation equivalent to D 30 in the currency of the country of destination. Residents of Tunisia traveling as tourists to countries outside the French Franc Area are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 30 in the currency of the country of destination. If the resident goes to two countries, of which one is in the French Franc Area, he may have transferred the equivalent of D 50 in the currency of the country of destination or 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA transit in the French Franc Area, in addition to the D 30 in the cur- rency of the country outside the French Franc Area. These allocations may be taken in the fo rm of foreign banknotes to the extent that their importation is permitted by the regulations of the country to be visited. The export of foreign banknotes requires a license. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; all other exports require an export license or an exchange commit- ment. For all exports, the exporter must give an undertaking to repatriate the exchange proceeds; for exports to the French Franc Area this repatriation must take place within 3 months f rom shipment, and for exports to other countries within 30 days f rom the date payment is due. This obligation applies regardless of the currency in which the export is expressed. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate all amounts derived f rom services rendered to persons resident abroad, inc lud ing residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds f rom invisibles received f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in free ly. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Tunisia do not in principle require author- ization, but those approved in advance by the Tunisian authorities may be given a guarantee for the transfer of current earnings and the retransfer at any time of the fu ll proceeds upon liquidation. The retransfer of investments made by residents of the French Franc Area, and of income derived therefrom, is in practice also authorized. Other outward transfers of capital require the approval of the Central Bank. However, residents may, through the intermediary of a Tunisian authorized bank, freely purchase Tunisian securities on the off ic ial stock exchanges of other countries of the French Franc Area. Changes during 1961 January L A bilateral payments agreement with Bulgaria came into effect, and Bulgaria was included in the list of countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements directly. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA January 10. The regulations governing f inanc ial transactions between Tunisia and countries outside the French Franc Area were codified. April 7. The list of global quotas for the 1961 general import program was published. Quotas were established for the import of such items as wool and cotton textiles, tea, sugar, condensed milk, and dried fruit. June 19. Residents of Tunisia were required to repatriate the pro- ceeds of services rendered to persons and concerns in other parts of the French Franc Area. Previously, this obligation applied only to the proceeds of exports. July 28. The import and export of Tunisian banknotes was pro- hibited, except with special authorization from the Central Bank. August 18. The authorized banks in Tunisia were prohibited f rom maintaining accounts abroad in currencies other than those of the French Franc Area, and all exchange transactions in those currencies had to be channeled through the Central Bank. The system of EFAC accounts was terminated. November 6. A law authorized the Central Bank to establish condi- tions for transfers to blocked accounts (cautionnement) in connection with certain imports, and fixed three months as the maximum period of time during which these deposits could be blocked. November 17. Details concerning the application of the law of November 6 (see above) were published. The period for which the deposits would be blocked was fixed at two months. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY1 Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Turkish Liras 9.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are LT 9.00 buy ing, and LT 9.045 selling, per US$1. A tax of LT 4.50 per US$1 is payable on purchases of exchange for travel. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Commerce, in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance, prepares the semiannual import programs. The Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey issues licenses and allocates fore ign exchange according to the import programs, and issues import documents for customs clearance for imports by both the public and the private sectors. Certain imports requ ire the permission of the relevant ministry or department, p r ima r i ly for public security, agricultural, or health reasons. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise and invisibles with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant payments agreement. Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are sub ject to import license or import document. Import documents are granted free ly on application for approximately 60 per cent of regular imports. Import licenses or documents are issued only to registered importers, industrialists, and government depart- ments, in accordance with semiannual import programs. Each import program classifies imports f rom countries with wh ich Turkey does not have bilateral trade agreements in two groups: commodities that are liberalized (the "free list") and commodities for which global quotas are established. The global quotas are divided into (1) quotas 1 In view of certain changes which took place early in 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at February 26, 1962. 2B r a z il (an arrangement between the central bank s ), Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Chambers of Commerce), Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. In addition, Turkey has clearing account arrangements within the framework of the European Monetary Agreement with Greece and Switzerland. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY for "importers" and (2) quotas for "industrialists" to meet their own requirements. Quotas for importers are, in general, allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis. Any one importer may not obtain a license for goods valued at more than 20 per cent of the specific commodity quota. (This limitation does not apply to quotas for im- ports from individual countries under Turkey's bilateral trade agree- ments.) Quotas for industrialists are allocated by the Chambers of Commerce and/or Industry for the private sector and by the Ministry of Industry for the public sector. Global quotas for investment goods are allocated to industrialists by the Ministry of Finance. An advance deposit of 10 per cent of the value of the import is required as a guarantee in the form of cash, bank guarantee, or govern- ment securities for all imports except those by state economic agencies and those under the industrialists' quotas. The deposit must be made at the time of applying for the import license or import document and is refunded when the goods have been cleared through customs and have been paid for. In addition to the guarantee deposit, 50 per cent of the total value of free list imports—except by industrialists and government agencies—must be deposited in local currency with author- ized banks, if payment is to be made against documents or against merchandise (suppliers' credits up to six months). The import of luxury goods and automobiles is not permitted, but foreign cars may be sold in Turkey by diplomats, tourists, etc. Such sales are subject to a tax of LT 4.50 per US$1 of calculated sales value, with a minimum of LT 5,000. The tax is not related to the price paid by the buyer and is due even if no payment is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade, particularly imports, to foreign investment, and to technical assistance are liberalized, as are also payments for such purposes as travel for health, subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, books, subscriptions to international organizations, registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administra- tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, and court fees on account of commercial transactions, including the lawyer's fee. There is an allowance for tourist travel equivalent to US$200 a year for residents, whether of Turkish or foreign nationality. Exchange for business travel is granted within limits varying according to the amount of income of, or income tax paid by, the applicant firm. With the exception of travel for reasons of health, a tax of LT 4.50 per US$1 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY is payab le on all exchange purqhased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 200 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out the unspent portion of the foreign exchange recorded in their passports on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-exportation or f rom the standpoint of domestic need. Exports not payable in convertible cur- rencies are subject both to license and to export quota. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported, within three months f rom the date of export or within ten days f rom the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered within three months f rom the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers is limited to LT 200 for Turkish nationals and LT 500 for foreigners. Capital Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are in principle subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Foreign companies and contractors established abroad who wish to do business in Turkey must import in the fo rm of foreign exchange the capital and operating funds required by the business. Apart from approved investments, assets and balances owned by, and earnings accruing to, nonresidents cannot be converted into foreign currency, and if they exceed LT 5,000 a year they are blocked. Subject to individual permit, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, except as capital for business. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Annual profit, interest, and dividend transfers on approved investments are liberalized, and all or part of the invested capital or foreign loan may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Registered shares or stock certificates issued under this law are freely transferable between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval where nonresident interests are involved. Changes during 1961 January 4- The sixth import program, covering the first half of 1961, was announced. Many items were transferred f rom the global quota to the free import list, and approximately 50 new items were added to the global quota list and a lesser number to the free import list. June 6. A foreign exchange allowance equivalent to US$200 a year was established for Turkish nationals traveling abroad. June 6. A special tax of LT 4.50 per US$1 was levied on exchange purchased for travel, on purchases of foreign travel tickets, and on the payment of baggage charges. The special tax on sales by diplomats, tourists, etc., of automobiles, including station wagons and panel trucks, was changed f rom a weight basis to a value basis and was reduced, in the process, to LT 4.50 per US$1 of customs value, with a minimum customs value of LT 5,000. Proceeds from these special taxes would be deposited in a Stabilization Fund, to be put at the disposal of the Minister of Finance for the purpose of covering losses in Turkish liras in connection with transfers of installments of the consolidated foreign debt. June 6. The amount of Turkish banknotes and coins which for- eign travelers are permitted to bring in was increased f rom LT 200 to LT 500. June 27. The bilateral payments agreement with Denmark was terminated. June 29. In addition to the authorized banks, the following were authorized to purchase foreign exchange f rom foreign nationals: passenger ships flying the Turkish flag; all hotels, restaurants, and 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY places of en ter ta inment in Turkey holding a tourist ce r t i f ica te; tourist o f f ices; and travel and transport agencies. June 80. The bilateral payments agreement with Austria was terminated. July 4- The seventh import program, covering the second half of 1961, was announced. Railway locomotives and tenders with narrow gauge trucks were removed f rom the free list. On the other hand, the f r ee list was extended by the addition of orthopedic appliances, electric cells and parts thereof, razor blade blanks in strips, glass fillers for v a cuum flasks, ar t if ic ial waxes, crude petroleum, etc. August 23. The bilateral payments agreement with Norway was terminated. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1962: January 4. The eighth import program, covering the first ha lf of 1962, was announced. Only minor changes f rom the seventh program were made: Cellophane and some other kinds of paper and cartons of special quality, machinery for insecticides, and chassis for buses f i t ted with engines with a capacity of 6 tons and over were t rans fe r red f r om the global quota to the f ree import list. On the other hand, a few i tems were removed f rom the free import list. January 20. Travel for reasons of hea l th was exempted f rom the special tax of LT 4.50 per US$1. February 26. The travel allowance (equivalent to US$200 a year) was extended to residents of fore ign nationality. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Egyptian Pound 1 = US$2.87156. The official rates are US$2.8660 buying, and US$2.8375 selling, per LE 1. The official buying rate applies to Suez Canal dues and certain specified invisibles. Proceeds from other invisibles and from exports, whether in foreign currencies or in Egyptian pounds to the debit of nonresident accounts (other than the Austrian "collector" account, Swiss "B" accounts, Netherlands "B" accounts, Belgian accounts, and Lebanese nonresident accoun ts), receive a premium of 20 per cent. On the selling side, the o f f ic ial rate applies to a few specified invisibles. A premium of 20 per cent is payable by the remitter on payments for other invisibles and for imports, whether in foreign currencies or in Egyptian pounds to the credit of nonresident accounts. The premiums are calculated on the Egyptian pound equivalent at the par value rate. A special rate of LL 8.00 = LE 1 applies to the exchange allowance of LE 100 a year for travel to Lebanon. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Arab Republic is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Opera- tions appointed by the Minister of Economy. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the Central Bank of Egypt. An Export Board con- trols exports. An Import Control Office is responsible for issuing import licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible currency;1 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange control regulations of the United Arab Republic as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any other convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Payments to countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United A rab Republic, there are three main types of nonresident accoun t: Free Nonresident Accoun ts, Nonresident C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any non- resident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred f rom ab road; with transfers f rom other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the account; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Non- resident C or D Accoun ts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that 2 The United Arab Republic has the following types of payments agreements: (1) agreements providing for payments through clearing accounts denominated in either Egyptian pounds or another currency, with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, India ( for trade in certain commodities), Iraq, North Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Poland, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia; (2) agreements providing for settlements in convertible currency, subject to credit facilities on either side, with Cameroun, Ceylon, Ethiopia, Ghana, Libya, Mali, Morocco, Portugal, Somalia, Spain, Turkey, and Republic of Viet-Nam; and (3) agreements providing for payments either in convertible currencies or through bilateral accounts in Egyptian pounds, w i th Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, and Switzerland. An agreement of the first type was conc luded w i th Tunisia on March 1, 1962. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresi- dent Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for paymen ts due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts and payments abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and trans- fe rs f rom the account of one country to any other country may not be made w i thout Central Exchange Control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred f rom ab road; with transfers f rom a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that Central Exchange Con- trol authorization is obtained —with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is ob ta ined —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers may be made between blocked accounts of the same nationality. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited for investments in U.A.R. Government loans and in registered shares in nominative fo rm of companies established in the United Arab Republic, and for subscrip- tions to increases in capital of U.A.R. companies in which the account ho lder is already a shareholder. Income derived f rom such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a fa ir ly large number of goods f rom any source, and all imports f rom Israel, are prohibited. Almost all other imports require individual licenses, the issuance of which is dependent on the currency required for payment, the method of settlement, and the category of goods. Import licenses are issued by the Import Control Office within 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC the framework of an import budget. In the allocation of exchange for imports, a distinction is made between convertible currencies and bilateral currencies; the amount available is indicated separately for each bilateral currency. Payments for imports are subject to a premium of 20 per cent. How- ever, for some specified imports (industrial equipment, machinery, raw materials necessary for industrial expansion, foodstuffs, petroleum products, and certain animals and fue ls) half of the premium collected is refunded to the importer. In addition, a statistical tax of 5 per cent is payable on imports. Advance payments exceeding LE 100 for imports require the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Import trade is concentrated largely in state-owned importing agencies, which must submit their applications for import licenses to the appropriate ministry for scrutiny in the light of the import budget and for forward ing to the Import Control Office. Government depart- ments may import directly, and industrial firms may apply through the ministry concerned for permission to import raw materials, spare parts, and equipment needed by them. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to effect payments for certain invisibles; for others the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Payments for invisibles are subject to a premium of 20 per cent, with certain exceptions, such as insurance payments, cost of tickets for travel abroad, and surplus funds of foreign shipping and airline companies in the United Arab Republic. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Expenses for permitted travel, family maintenance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. There is a basic exchange allowance for travel of LE 75 a year for each adult. For travel to Lebanon, the allowance is LE 100 a year at a special rate agreed upon with the Lebanese authorities. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound notes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remaining foreign banknotes which they had brought in and declared, but resi- dents may not take out foreign banknotes in excess of LE 20 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart f rom exports to Israel, which are proh ib i ted, and commodities required for the na t ional economy, whose export may be restricted, 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be sub- mitted. Cotton may be exported only through the intermediary of the Egyptian Cotton Commission at prices based on world prices. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Export proceeds, whether in foreign currencies or in Egyptian pounds to the debit of accounts opened according to bilateral payments agreements, receive a premium of 20 per cent, with the exception of proceeds in Egyptian pounds to the debit of the Austrian "collector" account, Swiss "B" accounts, Netherlands "B" accounts, Belgian accounts, and Lebanese nonresident accounts. An export tax not exceed- ing 20 per cent on exports of rice, onions (including dry onions), and petroleum and petroleum products is collected when the proceeds are repatriated. Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the official rate, within one month f rom the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. These proceeds receive a premium of 20 per cent, with the following exceptions: amounts received to cover expenses of ships and planes in the United Arab Republic; amounts received for the Shipping Accounts; surplus funds of U.A.R. shipping and airline companies abroad; insurance and reinsurance operations; amounts due from provident funds; and receipts in Egyptian pounds to the debit of the Austrian "collector" account, Swiss "B" accounts, Netherlands "B" accounts, Belgian accounts, and Lebanese nonresident accounts. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds f rom Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible currencies at the official rate or by trans- fers from a Free Nonresident Account. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic f rom abroad may not import Egyptian banknotes but are permitted to bring in and use locally unlimited amounts in foreign banknotes, subject to customs declaration. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside the United A rab Repub l ic require indi- vidual licenses, which norma l ly are not granted except for transfers 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Nonresidents may freely purchase securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds f rom sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between residents of the same monetary area are permitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securi- ties drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue, (2) the value of l ife or endowment policies on surrender or at maturity, (3) matured mortgages, and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account, except that capital transfers to Switzerland may exceed LE 5,000. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish the limits for transfers of profits. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. Changes during 1961 Jarwary 7. A bilateral payments agreement with Ceylon came into force, providing for settlements in sterling through centralized accounts. March 5. A bilateral payments agreement with Mali came into force, providing for settlements in sterling through centralized accounts. May 18. A revised payments agreement with Portugal came into force, providing for settlements in U.S. dollars through centralized accounts. June 1. A revised bilateral payments agreement with Guinea came into force, providing for settlements through a clearing account denominated in Egyptian pounds. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC June 15. A. bilateral payments agreement with Ghana came into force, providing for settlements in sterling through centralized accounts. July 1. Import arrangements were reorganized. The import trade was concentrated largely in some 12 state-owned agencies; private importers, other than industrial firms, were no longer permitted to carry on import business. July 1. A revised payments agreement with Turkey came into fo rce, providing for settlements in U.S. dollars through centralized accounts. July 24. A revised payments agreement with Poland came into force, providing for settlements through a clearing account denominated in U.S. dollars. August L Under a new cotton policy, the variable premium (6.38 per cent since September 1960) was no longer applied to receipts in con- vertible currencies from exports of raw cotton, cotton yarn, and textiles. The Egyptian Cotton Commission became the central agency for marketing cotton; all cotton exports were to be channeled through the Commission at prices based on world prices. September 1. The application of the premium of 10 per cent to import payments was extended to cover imports payable through bilateral agreement accounts and in inconvertible currencies. Previ- ously, only imports paid for in convertible currencies were subject to payment of this premium. October 18. The payments agreement with India was revised to provide for settlements in convertible currencies. Balances due to either country in respect of previous arrangements would be settled in the manner already provided for in those arrangements. However, it was agreed that Rs 110 million of Indian imports of Egyptian cotton and rice would be used to pay for Egyptian imports of Indian ju te and tea. December 19. A bilateral payments agreement with Cameroun came into force, providing for settlements in sterling through centralized accounts. December 81. The import of Egyptian banknotes by travelers was prohibited. However, until February 1, 1962, such banknotes could be imported through authorized banks and credited to nonresident bank- note accounts denom ina ted in either Egyptian pounds or U.S. dollars. Egyptian pound accoun ts could be debited only for local payments (tourist expenses, maintenance, medical expenses, etc.). A rate of US$1.65 per LE 1 would be applied to banknotes credited to U.S. dollar accoun ts; such accounts could be utilized in settlement of nonresident obligations toward res iden ts, inc lud ing paymen ts for exports but exclud- ing Suez Canal dues. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC December 31. A p rem ium of 20 per cent on the par value was applied to all payments and receipts —whether in foreign currencies or in Egyptian pounds to the credit or debit of bankers' nonresident accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Egypt or the authorized com- mercial banks —with the exception of certain specified invisibles and of all receipts in Egyptian pounds to the debit of the Austrian "col- lector" account, Swiss "B" accounts, Netherlands "B" accounts, Belgian accounts, and Lebanese nonresident accounts. The excepted invisible transactions included Suez Canal dues; the expenses and profits of shipping and airline companies; premiums, claims, and surpluses of insurance and reinsurance operations; settlements with post, telegraph, and telephone administrations; cost of travel tickets sold in the United A r ab Republic by agencies of foreign companies; educational expenses up to LE 60 a month; and installments paid by the Central Bank of Egypt in repayment of the foreign obligations of the Government. The 20 per cent premium replaced all premiums applied previously, as well as the import license fee of 9 per cent and the tax of 10 per cent on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism and maintenance expenses of U.A.R. nationals residing abroad. NOTE. —On May 7, 1962, the United A rab Repub l ic announced th at the multiple rate structure was being replaced with a single rate of US$2.30 per LE 1; Suez Canal dues would continue to be collected as previously. This change is not taken into account in the forego ing presentation. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is Pound Sterling 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per £1. Market rates for other convertible or externally convertible currencies are f ree to move within a range of rates resulting f rom the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Forward prem iums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies. There is also a market in which the fore ign exchange proceeds result- ing f rom the sale of foreign securities owned by residents may be free ly negotiated, sometimes a t trac t ing a p rem ium over the official market rates. On December 30, 1961, the prem ium on U.S. dollars available for reinvestment in dollar securities was n i l, and on non-dollar curren- cies available for reinvestment in foreign currency securities other than dollar securities, it was 2%-2% per cent. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other par ts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control).1 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's f ree market. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of fore ign currency securities f rom the rest of the Sterling Area and over the sale of dollar securities to residents in other parts of the Sterling Area. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically 1 The Sterling Area comprises, in addition to the United Kingdom, Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Cyprus, Ghana, Iceland, India, the Irish Republic, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the State of Kuwait, Libya, the Federation of Malaya, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Sierra Leone, the State of Singapore, Sou th A f r i c a, South West A f r ica, Tanganyika, and Western Samoa, together with all British Colonies, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM all commercial banks are authorized to approve normal payments. Import and export licensing is hand led by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments f rom countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency; payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from an External Account or in any specified currency,2 or in any other fo re ign currency that is freely exchangeable for sterling. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accoun ts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (see footnote 1) are treated as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control permission is requ ired; but for payments to other countries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority of the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Blocked Accounts (see be low ), the sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. Balances on External Accounts are available for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency or gold. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency or gold. Blocked Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of all countries outside the Sterling Area except Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (residents of these three countries may t rans fer all their ster- ling assets to their respective countries). Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that may not be placed at the f ree disposal of nonresidents, e.g., capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom securities that are 2The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM payable in a Sterling Area currency, cannot be redeemed under any contractual provision within five years from the date of acquisition, and are not optionally payable in dollars or, in respect of securities issued on or a f ter June 23,1961, are not optionally payable in any other foreign currency; the income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are permitted freely, and Blocked Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of practically all goods are permitted free ly, under an Open General License, f rom all sources other than Japan and the "Eastern Area."3 Certain imports from Japan, mainly consumer goods, and imports of certain commodities from the "Eastern Area" are subject to restriction. Permission to import, whether under the Open General License or by some other form of license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign exchange to pay for the import. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, or for pay- ments to other countries for imports, unless the payment exceeds £2,000 and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank be fo re mak ing the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control fo rm is not required for payments not exceeding £250. An allowance of up to £250 in foreign exchange is made available automatically to travelers, who may obtain additional funds upon authorization by the Bank of England. Persons traveling directly to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount in British banknotes, but not more than £50 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom to other destinations. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling notes to nonresidents against payment in sterling f rom an External Account or any fore ign currency. 8 This group comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Germany (Soviet Zone ), Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, require export licenses. All other exports are free of license. Exchange control pro- cedure is waived for exports (other than private gifts in kind) valued at not more than £2,000 f .o.b. Exchange receipts in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see foo t- note 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of foreign exchange may be permitted to retain the exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. British and fore ign banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Transfers of resident capital to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which norma l ly is granted for commercial investment that promises to produce clear and commensurate benefits to U.K. export earnings and thus to the balance of payments in the short term. Permission may be obtained to invest foreign currency capital receipts in marketable securities expressed in foreign currency, but any such receipts in a specified currency (see footnote 2) which have not been invested within six months must be sold to an authorized bank. Repayments abroad due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations are permitted f ree ly; otherwise, repayments of non- resident-owned capital may be credited only to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). However, residents of Den- mark, Norway, and Sweden may transfer their funds freely to their respective countries. Persons resident outside the Sterling Area who make direct investments in the United K ingdom must provide one of the specified currencies or sterling f rom an External Account. Capital directly invested by a nonresident a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 in projects approved by the exchange control authorities may be repatri- ated at any time, together with profits thereon. Nonresidents may buy sterling securities on a recogn ized stock exchange in the United K ingdom against payment f rom an External A c coun t; or, if the securities cannot be redeemed under any contractual provision w i th in f ive years f r om the da te of pu rcha se and are not optionally payable in dollars or, in respect of securities issued on or a f ter June 23, 1961, are not optionally payable in any other foreign currency, they may be purchased with sterling f rom a Blocked 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Account.4 Nonresidents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or reinvested in a Sterling Area security having at least five years to maturity (special facilities apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, dividends, etc., from such securities and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable may be remitted to the country of residence of the owner or credited to any External Account. Nonresidents may purchase officially quoted non-sterling securities with sterling from an External Account. Such securities may not be resold on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but may be exported. Residents may sell outside the Sterling Area a security expressed in foreign currency and reinvest the proceeds in other marketable securities expressed in foreign currency; however, if the security sold is a U.S. or Canadian dollar security, the securities purchased must be U.S. or Canadian dollar marketable securities. Residents of the United Kingdom are required to obtain permission to acquire foreign currency securities f rom residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. Banknotes The authorized banks may deal in foreign notes and coins at free market rates of exchange. They may buy foreign notes and coins from residents without limit. In transactions with nonresidents abroad, they may deal in foreign notes and coins against External Account sterling, against sterling notes to be exported or that have been imported, or against any other foreign currency in notes or in any other fo rm. The au thor ized banks may also purchase foreign notes and coins f rom nonresidents visiting the United Kingdom, against payment in sterling in cash or to the credit of an External Account. They may also sell foreign notes and coins for travel outside the Sterling Area, but without special permission a resident traveler may not take out of the United Kingdom foreign notes in excess of the equivalent of £250, and a visitor not more than the amount he brought into the United Kingdom in foreign notes. Changes during 1961 January 2. The completion of exchange control fo rms was, in general, no longer required for payments in sterling or fore ign currency in 4 Exceptionally, 2% per cent Consols and 3% per cent War Loan may also be acquired with sterling from a Blocked Account. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM respect of imports into the United Kingdom, except for payments exceeding £2,000 (or partial payments when the total exceeds £2,000) made before evidence of importation can be presented to the bank making the remittance. Exchange control forms were also dispensed with for payments not exceeding £2,000 in all in respect of imports into other parts of the Sterling Area, and in respect of payments for goods originating in countries outside the Sterling Area and bought f rom and sold to such countries. June 23. It was announced that any security issued outside the Sterling Area on or a f ter this date which is contractually payable in a currency of the Sterling Area and is payable also in a foreign currency was to be treated as subject to the rules applicable to securities payable solely in a foreign currency. July L A global quota for imports of watch cases came into effect. July 25. It was announced that proposals for investment outside the Sterling Area would be subject to a more severe test than hitherto, viz., whether new investments would produce clear and commensurate benefits to U.K. export earnings and thus to the ba lance of payments in the short term. August 1. Imports f rom the dollar area of canned f ru it (except canned apples and canned citrus p roduc t s ), wine, beer, and gin were no longer sub ject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%! grains of gold %0 fine> which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of hand l ing charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold f rom and sells gold to governments, central banks, and, under certain circumstances, international institutions, for the settlement of inter- national ba lances and other legitimate monetary purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China or North Korea. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Controls The Treasury Depar tment deals w i th license app l ica t ions for trans- actions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China or North Korea, as spec if ied und er the Foreign Assets Control Regula- tions. The Bu reau of Customs of the Treasury Depar tment adm in is ters import quo tas for certain commodities, inc lud ing lead and z inc. Licenses required for da i ry produc ts and other agricultural commodities placed under import quota, pursuant to Section 22 of the Ag r icu l tu ral Ad jus t- ment Act, as amended, are issued by the Department of Agriculture. Licenses for the importation of crude petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items sub ject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ), the Depar tment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made f ree ly, with the excep- tion of payments to or for the account of the authorities or na t iona ls of Ma in land China or North Korea, which are permitted only under license. Imports of merchand ise known or believed to be of Ma in land Chinese or North Korean origin are sub ject to license.1 Certain import quotas are global; but quotas for such commodities as lead and z inc and certain agricultural commodities, inc lud ing sugar, are on a country-of-production basis. Global quotas are imposed on imports of 1 With effect f rom February 7, 1962, the importation into the United States of all goods of Cuban origin and of all goods imported from or through Cuba was prohibited except as au thor ized by the Secretary of the Treasury. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES crude petroleum and petroleum products, except those imported over- land (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or ra i l ), which are not restricted. Special import quotas apply to certain Philippine commodities under the Philippine Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the European Soviet bloc, with the exception of designated nonstrategic goods, all exports to Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, and most exports to Cuba are sub ject to validated license. In general, exports of strategic materials to other countries also require validated licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except where they involve Ma in land China or North Korea. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, except to the extent that the pro- visions referred to above regarding Mainland China or North Korea are involved. Changes during 1961 No significant changes took place dur ing 1961. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System The par value agreed with the International Monetary Fund is Uruguayan Pesos 7.40 = US$1. However, all exchange transactions take place in a free market with a fluctuating rate. The proceeds of most exports (but excluding meat and meat products) are subject to taxes (detracciones), and most imports are sub ject to surcharges. The rates in the free market on December 30, 1961 were Urftll.OO buying, and Ur$11.03 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the Bank ing Department of the Bank of the Republic. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges and export taxes, holds the advance deposit required for some imports, and receives export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral pay- ments agreements or interbank compensation agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.1 Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to declaration or prior registration. Imports are classified in four categories: goods in one category are not sub ject to surcharge; goods in the other three categories are subject to a surcharge of 40, 75, or 150 per cent. All goods not specifically listed in one of these four categories are subject to the 150 per cent sur- charge. For imports subject to the 150 per cent surcharge, an advance deposit of 100 per cent is also required. The advance deposit must be made with the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration of the import; it is re funded 9 months later or, for imports of a few specified items and imports of all goods not specifically listed, 12 months later. 1 These countries are Argentina, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, Spain, and Yugoslavia. However, the agree- ment with Hungary was terminated on March 1, 1962, and the agreement with Yugoslavia was to be terminated with effect from April 17, 1962. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly through the fluctuating free market. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detractiones), which are withheld by the Bank of the Republic. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export commodity; but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 5 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated m in imum is 25 per cent. These percentages may be ad jus ted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, through banks authorized to deal in fo re ign exchange, not later than 10 working days a f ter shipment has been au tho r i z ed. Exports of meat and meat products are at present exempt f rom these taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f r om invisibles may be he ld, u t i l ized, or sold in the fluctuating f ree market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward cap i tal t rans fe rs by either residents or non- residents are free. The corresponding exchange transactions may take place freely in the fluctuating f r ee market. Changes during 1961 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Paraguay was terminated. August 29. The export tax (detraction) on unwashed wool was raised to Ur$32 per 10 kilograms. September 14. The bilateral payments agreement with Brazil was terminated. From October 1, 1961, all transactions with Brazil would be settled in freely convertible currencies, and the bilateral account would be closed on December 31, 1961. October 24. The export tax (detraction) on meat and meat products was abolished. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is Venezuelan Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. There are controlled market rates and "official free" market rates. The controlled market selling rate of Bs 3.35 per US$1 applies to payments for essen- tial imports, certain invisibles, registered capital, and most government payments. The corresponding buying rate of Bs 3.33 per US$1 applies to the proceeds of exports of iron ore and other noncombustible minerals and of re-exports of imports paid for at the controlled market rate, to government receipts of any kind, and to incoming registered capital. Exchange is purchased from the petroleum companies at special buying rates. Under certain conditions, p re fe ren t ial rates apply to the proceeds of coffee and cacao exports. Other exchange transactions take place at "official free" exchange rates; on December 30, 1961, these rates were Bs 4.565 buy ing, and Bs 4.58 selling, per US$1. There is also a small exchange market with a fluctuating rate, in which the commercial banks do not pa r t ic ipa te; the rate for the U.S. dollar in this market was approximately Bs 4.578 on December 30, 1961. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance issues general directives for the operation of the exchange control system, which is administered by the Central Bank of Venezuela directly and through its Office of Exchange Control. Under the terms of an agreement with the Government, the Central Bank has the responsibility for ensuring that the special exchange rates are applied to the appropriate transactions. Import licenses are issued by the Office of Exchange Control for merchandise included in a controlled market list. This list is compiled by the Ministry of Finance, with the advice of the Central Bank and the Ministries of Develop- ment and Agriculture. Export licenses, when requ ired, are issued by these two Ministries and the Office of Exchange Control, which also issues exchange licenses when these are requ ired. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government. A number of items are subject to import license for pro- tective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. All imports at the controlled market rate (mostly essential items) require exchange licenses and, in some cases, import licenses as well. (The granting of an import license is not a commitment to provide exchange at the controlled market rate.) Imports through the "off ic ial f ree" market also, in some cases, require import licenses. Import licenses are not required for imports by air with an f.o.b. value under US$2,000 or the equivalent in other currencies, or for imports by any other means with a c.i.f. value under US$2,000 or the equivalent in other currenc ies. The Central Bank has the power to require an advance deposit of up to 100 per cent of the local currency equivalent of imported goods, in bolivares for controlled market imports or in U.S. dollars for "official free" market imports, but such requirements are not presently in force. Payments for Invisibles Exchange at the controlled market rate is provided for the fo l low ing: most government payments; the servicing of capital registered with the Central Bank; expenses of university and advanced students abroad up to US$250 a month, or up to US$350 a month for post- graduate students; and freight and insurance on goods imported at the controlled market rate. Exchange at the "official free" market rate is provided for the following: freight and insurance on imports of goods not imported at the controlled market rate; requirements of transportation and insur- ance compan ies; reasonable travel expenses up to US$5,000 a person, subject to adequate p r o o f; family maintenance payments up to US$1,000 a mon th; royalties and technical service fees relating to approved contracts; duly substantiated debts to nonresidents; and the servicing of capital not eligible for controlled market exchange (sales are limited to not more than 1 per cent a month of the total investment). Other transactions may be settled th rough the f r ee market. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of strategic ma ter ia ls to cer ta in countries is prohibited, and export licenses for some products essential to the domestic economy must be obtained f r om the Ministry of Development. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of F inance. The petroleum companies must surrender export proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes) at a rate of Bs 3.09 per US$1; a rate of Bs 3.046259 per US$1 is applied to exchange 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers during any one year. The controlled market rate is applied to the proceeds of exports of iron ore and other noncombusti- ble minerals; to government receipts of any kind; to re-exports of imports paid for at the controlled market rate; and to that part of export proceeds which represents the value of components imported at the official market rate. The proceeds of other exports may be sold at the "official free" rate or in the f ree market. The Central Bank buys, but does not require surrender o f, those por- tions of the proceeds of exports of coffee and cacao and their products which, depending on market prices for these two commodities and their products, carry a rate of Bs 4.80 ( c o f f e e ), and Bs 4.25 (cacao ), per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles are freely disposable and may be sold at the "official free" rate or in the f ree market. Capital Incoming capital may be registered by the Central Bank if it is recognized as advantageous to the national economy. Registered capital is converted at the controlled market rate and may be repatriated at the controlled market rate in effect at the time repatriation takes place. Other capital transfers may be made at the "official free" market rate or through the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 30, 1961)l (bolwares per UJ&. dollar) Selling Buying 3.046259 (Petroleum Company Rate) Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies in excess of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales during the given year. 3.09 (Petroleum Company Rate) Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies up to the limits of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales du r ing the given year. 1 Special rates, not shown in this table, may apply to a proportion of the proceeds of exports of cacao, coffee, and certain processed cacao and coffee products, depending on the world prices for these commodities. Exporters of these items have the alternative of selling their proceeds in the free market. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (bolivares per U£. dollar) Buying 3.33 (Controlled Market Rate) Exports of iron ore and other non- combustible minerals, and exports of coffee and cacao in a proportion de- pending on world prices. Government receipts. Registered capital. 4.565 ("Official Free" Market Rate) Other export receipts. Some invisibles. Unregistered capital. 4.578 (approx .)2 (pree Market Rate) Other receipts. Selling 3.35 (Controlled Market Rate) Payments for essential imports and re- lated invisibles. Advanced students' ex- penses. Most government payments. Registered capital. 4.58 ("Official Free" Market Rate) All other imports and related invisibles. Travel expenses, other students' ex- penses, family maintenance, etc. Un- registered capital. 4.578 (approx .)2 (Free Market Rate) Other payments. Changes during 1961 On various dates during the year, additions were made to the list of commodities subject to import license. March 17. By virtue of Executive Decree 480, the exchange system was modified. The official market became the controlled market, and a list of imports (mostly essential items), requiring import licenses and exchange licenses to benefit f rom the controlled market rate, was issued. Imports valued at less than US$2,000 were exempted f rom licensing requirements. The Central Bank was empowered to require an advance deposit of up to 100 per cent of the bolivar equivalent of imports if the situation warranted it. April 1. By virtue of Executive Decree 492, the exchange system was fur ther modified. The determination of the controlled market selling rate was le ft to the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Travel expenses were excluded f rom the controlled market. An "official free" market was established. April 17. The transactions eligible for the controlled market and the "official free" market were fu r ther defined, and the commercial banks were excluded f rom participation in the fluctuating free market. 2 There is no spread between the buying and selling rates, but brokers charge a commission of Bs 0.02 per US$1. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial parity is VN$35.00 per US$1. This rate, plus a prem ium on purchases of exchange at the official rate or the payment of a Security and Economic Development Tax on sales of exchange at the off ic ial rate, equivalent in each case to five sevenths of the amount transferred, gives rise to effective rates of VN$59.40 buying, and VN$60.60 selling, per US$1, for most trade and certain invisible transactions. There is also an officially controlled f ree market, through which certain other invisibles may be settled; as at January 1, 1962 the rate in this market was VN$73.50 per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Under an agreement with Cambodia, payments to and from that coun try are made at a rate of 1 piastre = 1 riel. Rates for other currenc ies are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effec t ive U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is adm in is tered by the Na t ional Exchange Off ice (a depar tment of the Na t ional Bank of Viet-Nam) in accordance with the general policies of the Ministry of Finance. All remittances must have the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Licenses for imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade and are countersigned by the National Bank (American Aid Depa r tmen t ). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade and are countersigned by the Na t ional Exchange Office. However, for imports of a noncommercial character valued at less than VN$1,000, the National Exchange Off ice is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade but require also the approval of the Na t ional Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts through the off ic ial ma rke t, and outgoing payments for certain invisibles authorized through the controlled free market, must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Settlements with Cambodia and the United A rab Republic are made through clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the central bank of each 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at that date. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM country in local currency and settled periodically in convertible currency. Settlements in respect of other imports and of exports are made in convertible currencies as stipulated in the related license. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the National Exchange Office. All transactions through these accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are sub ject to license. Imports are classified in 18 categories; no importer may be concerned with more than 3 categories. Licenses may not be transferred f rom one importer to another. In principle, the minimum amount for an import license application is VN$10,000. Licenses less than 90 per cent used are subject to a penalty of up to 20 per cent of the value of the commodities licensed. Importers must have storage facilities for the goods they import. Exchange at the o f f ic ial rate is granted for all au tho r ized impor ts, but a Security and Economic Development Tax equal to five sevenths of the amount transferred must be paid in piastres on all such paymen ts. Payments for Invisibles All outgoing payments require approval f rom the National Exchange Office. For certain payments —such as government expenses, incidental charges on imports, certain insurance premiums and indemnities, students7 expenses,2 and savings of foreign technicians —exchange is granted by the National Exchange Office at the official rate, sub ject to the Security and Economic Development Tax in piastres equal to five sevenths of the amount to be transferred. With the approval of the National Exchange Office, payments may be made up to pre- scribed limits through the controlled free market for such items as transfers of profits of foreign enterprises, personal savings of resident foreigners other than foreign technicians, medical expenses, fam i ly allocations, and foreign travel. Travelers are permitted to take with them VN$500 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be 2 Until June 30, 1962, all students are given a subsidy of five sevenths of the amount transferred; after that date, only officially sponsored students will be entitled to this subsidy. A similar subsidy applied, until March 31, 1962, to remittances by Vietnamese diplomatic personnel or those on missions or study tours abroad. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM re-exported on the strength of a declaration to the customs supported by evidence that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank at the appropriate rate. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. The exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the official rate, and receive a fixed premium equal to five sevenths of the amount sold; some are given export subsidies in addition to the premium. Exports to communist countries and exports of manu- factured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles directly related to trade must be surrendered at the official rate, and receive a premium of five sevenths of the amount sold. Exchange derived f rom other invisibles may be sold at the controlled free market rate; thus, tourists, philanthropic organi- zations, and foreign governments may sell their foreign exchange at this rate to cover their expenses in Viet-Nam. Persons entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may not bring in more than VN$500 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreigners traveling in Viet-Nam must record all purchases and sales of foreign exchange on entry-exit forms. Capital Capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. The rate (i.e., whether the official rate plus premium or the controlled free market rate) at which foreign investments enter is regulated on a case-to-case basis. If a foreign enterprise requires exchange to pay for imported materials at the official rate (with payment of the five-sevenths tax ), the capital con- cerned must be surrendered at that rate, receiving the five-sevenths premium. Repatriation of capital takes place at the rate of entry, but profits are always transferred through the controlled free market. Capital held in non transferab le piastres by nonresident foreigners may be sold to other nonresident foreigners for foreign exchange at a freely negotiated rate, provided that the purchaser places the piastres 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM so acquired in a capital account with an authorized bank. Piastres he ld in such accounts may be used only for investment in certain designated branches of economic activity and only with the approval of the National Exchange Office. The transfer of profits on approved foreign investments is guaranteed in accordance with the regulations in force at the time; repatriation is allowed to begin a f ter five years in annu al installments of 20 per cent of the initial investment. Table of Exchange Rates (as at Janua ry 1, 1962) (piastres per UJ§. dollar) Buying 34.65 (Official Rate) Selling 35.35 (Official Rate) 59.40 (Official Rate plus Premium o / 9» All exports.8 Government Some private invisibles. 73.50 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. receipts. 60.60 (Official Rate plus Security and Economic Development Tax oi%) A ll imports. G o v e r nm e nt paymen t s. Some private invisibles.4 73.50 (Controlled Free Market Rate) O ther invisibles. Changes during 1961 January 8. The "stabilization" tax of VN$50 per US$1, which applied to certain imports financed with Vietnamese resources, was reduced to VN$39 per US$1. NOTE.—On Janua ry 1, 1962, the fo l low ing changes were put into effect: A new "Security and Economic Development Tax" was applied to all imports (including those financed with U.S. a id ), and to those payments for invisibles effected at the off ic ial rate. The tax in piastres was equal to five sevenths of the amount to be transferred at the official rate, giving rise to an effective rate of VN$60.60 per US$1. The "stabilization," "perequation," and "production" taxes and excise duties formerly applied to many imports were abolished, and a revised customs tariff was introduced. A new luxury tax, to be collected by the customs on certain nonessential imports, was also in t roduced. On the 8 Some secondary exports receive special subsidies also. * See footnote 2. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM buy ing side, a new premium, also equal to five sevenths of the amount to be transferred at the off ic ial rate, and giving rise to an effective rate of VN$59.40 per US$1, was applied to all exports and to other receipts formerly effected at the official rate. The previous export premium (VN$13.48 per US$1) was abolished, and the export taxes formerly in effect for some products were replaced by new export taxes. New subsidies were introduced for some secondary exports, replacing those formerly in effect. The controlled free market rate of VN$73.50 continued to apply to various invisibles. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Yugoslav Dinars 300.00 = US$1, but all exchange transactions take place at a unitary fixed rate of Din 750 per US$1. Administration of Control The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions governing foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Committee for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial trans- actions, and issues import and export licenses where required. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. The National Bank is the operative organ of exchange control and prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. All foreign exchange transactions have to be effected through the National Bank and the authorized banks, i.e., the Foreign Trade Bank, the Agricultural Bank, or, for certain imports of capital goods, the Investment Bank. Most of the foreign exchange resources are con- trolled by the National Bank, which supplies the foreign exchange needs of the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Eastern Germany, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and Uruguay; (2) in sterling with Mainland Ch ina; and (3) in their respective currencies with Ghana, India, Iraq, Switzerland, and the United Arab Republic. A certain degree of multilateralization in payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Austria, Greece, Iraq, Turkey, and Switzerland. 1 In view of the change that took place on January 1, 1962 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Nonresident Accounts Dinar accounts of nonresidents may be credited with the dinar countervalue of exchange transferred f rom abroad, as well as with dinar amounts realized in Yugoslavia, in accordance with the regula- tions. These accounts may be debited for current payments in Yugoslavia, but balances may not be transferred abroad except with special approval. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may open accounts in foreign currencies in Yugoslavia only with the approval of the National Bank. Balances on such accounts may be used for both commercial and noncommercial transactions. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may open with the National Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Payments to the credit of these accounts in foreign currencies may be made only by transfers of the foreign currency in which the account is expressed. These accounts may be debited for all noncom- mercial payments. Transfers f rom these accounts are allowed, and transfers f rom accounts in convertible currencies may be made to all countries. Imports and Import Payments Only economic enterprises registered as participating in foreign trade may import. Registration is granted liberally: in addition to those enterprises specializing in foreign trade, most large industrial enterprises are registered. Unregistered enterprises are required to give their orders to the foreign trade enterprises, which import on their behalf. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by a number of foreign trade enterprises, acting as agents of the State Food Administration. Some 80 commodities or groups of commodities included in a free list may be imported without license from any country and are free of quantitative restriction. They comprise about 70 raw materials and semiprocessed goods and 10 consumer goods items; such imports consti- tute about one fourth of all imports. A "liberal licensing" procedure applies to imports of 7 commodities or groups of commodities, for which import licenses are issued freely; these constitute about 2 per cent of all imports. For imports of 29 commodities or groups of commodities (23 of them being raw materials and semiprocessed goods and the other 6 being broad groups of consumer goods), commodity quotas are established in dinars. The fu ll quota for each commodity or group of commodities 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA is divided into subquotas: one for all convertible currencies and the others for each bilateral agreement currency. Only a portion of the annual quotas is released initially, and the total of the subsequent releases may be more or less than the remainder after the initial release. Imports under quotas constitute over one third of all imports. Capital goods also are imported under quotas established for all convertible currencies taken together and for each bilateral agreement currency. These quotas are made available to the Investment Bank for imports of capital goods related to approved projects. Imports of capital goods effected under this arrangement constitute about one fifth of all imports. In addition, economic enterprises are authorized to import capital goods of any kind and f rom any country within the limits established for each individual enterprise, on the basis of dispos- able depreciation funds. Imports of capital goods under this procedure constitute about 2 per cent of all imports. Other goods, except consumer goods, may be imported freely from any country by utilizing foreign exchange allocated to each enterprise on the basis of the foreign exchange used by them in the past for imports of the same goods. Should an economic enterprise wish to import under this procedure, whether under "liberal licensing," under individual commodity quotas, or under restrictive licensing (see be low), it must obtain the necessary import permit or authorization. In practice, the use of these funds for imports of goods under quotas is allowed only in exceptional cases. A liberal treatment is accorded to imports of goods destined for further processing and subsequent export. In practice, this procedure is used mainly for imports of raw materials and semimanufactured products. Imports under this procedure consti- tute over one sixth of all imports. Specified raw materials, semimanufactured goods, and consumer goods not included in the free import and specified capital goods lists may be imported only on the basis of an individual license, which is granted on a restrictive basis on the merits of each case. Imports under this arrangement amount to less than 1 per cent of all imports. Foreign exchange appropr ia te to the exporting country is provided by the National Bank or one of the authorized banks to pay for all permitted imports. For the payment of imports subject to restrictive licensing, the economic enterprises may use either the foreign exchange allocated to them on the basis of past use or, in the case of capital goods, the foreign exchange allocation based on the percentage of disposable depreciation fund s, or foreign exchange made available to them on an ad hoc basis for imports destined for further processing and subsequent exportation. In addition to the above, economic 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA enterprises may obtain foreign exchange for payment of imports under quotas, or of those covered by allocations received on the basis of past use, from the authorized banks' own availabilities, provided that the imports concerned are used in such a way as to increase Yugo- slavia's exports or decrease imports. Compensation arrangements with foreign countries are permitted only as an exception and are subject to approval by the Committee for Foreign Trade and the Federal State Secretariat for Internal Trade. The foreign trade organization carrying out such an arrangement must make a deposit in dinars equivalent to 5 per cent of the value of the proposed export. The deposit is forfeited if the arrangement is not carried through in accordance with the conditions stipulated. Imports through compensation transactions constitute less than 2 per cent of all imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to payments for merchan- dise. Exchange for all payments for invisibles may be purchased from the authorized banks by government organs and institutions, social organizations, and similar bodies, within quotas determined in advance for each year. Exchange for private travel up to the equivalent of US$30 for each person annually, and for remittances for family maintenance up to US$20 annually, is also made available. Exchange in excess of these allocations and for payments for all other invisibles is usually not granted. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denomina- tions of Din 100, may be taken out by travelers. Export and Export Proceeds Fifty industrial commodities or groups of such commodities and 13 agricultural commodities or groups of such commodities are subject to individual export license. Seventeen industrial commodities or groups of such commodities and 9 agricultural commodities or groups of such commodities are subject to export quota. The principal reason for export restrictions is to assure adequate domestic supplies; accordingly, the degree of restriction varies f rom commodity to commodity. In 1961, exports under quotas represented about one eighth, and those under license less than 2 per cent, of total exports. Temporary export subsidies of varying magnitude are paid out of the Federal budget on the f.o.b. value of exports, irrespective of the 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA exchange payment. Altogether, 215 commodities or groups of com- modities (most of them industrial raw materials, semiprocessed goods, or finished products) are accorded export subsidies: 41, representing about 13 per cent of total exports, are granted a 32 per cent export subsidy; 58, representing about 11 per cent of total exports, are granted a 22 per cent export subsidy; and 116, representing about 23 per cent of total exports, are granted a 10 per cent export subsidy. All proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered immediately af ter receipt, and in any event not later than 90 days from the date of exportation. Exporters may purchase from the authorized banks foreign exchange proportionate to their export receipts to make payments connected with their exports, to purchase goods abroad, and to make other payments intended to advance their own economic activities. The proportions of export receipts that may be purchased by exporters are 7 per cent in the case of industrial goods and 3 per cent in the case of agricultural goods. The purchased exchange is not transferable. In practice, a large part of it is used to pay for expenses incidental to exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the au thor ized banks; those accruing f rom services must be surrendered not later than 90 days f rom the date of maturity of the payment. Organizers of international fa irs in Yugoslavia are credited with 20 per cent of the exchange they receive from foreign exhibitors. This exchange may be used for the purchase of equipment for stands, to pay commissions for representation abroad, and for other expenses con- nected with the fairs. Enterprises involved in projects abroad may retain 100 per cent of their exchange proceeds to carry out such projects. Similarly, enterprises that participate in foreign companies may retain their profits earned abroad and use them for reinvestment abroad. Enterprises involved in foreign advertising in Yugoslavia may retain 50 per cent of their exchange receipts for use in connection with their activities, including the purchase abroad of printing machines and other materials. In all these cases the exchange is not transferable, but it can always be sold to the National Bank at the un if ied settlement rate. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual procedures for import authorization apply. Residents may be authorized to hold foreign exchange accounts, in which they may deposit savings from salaries, per diem reimburse- ments, fellowships, and individual earnings obtained while staying abroad. Moreover, recipients of inheritances, emigrants' remittances, 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA etc., f rom abroad may apply to the Federal Secretariat for Finance within one year of receipt to retain part of the foreign exchange. The retained sums may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family. They are not transferable and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100, may be brought in by travelers. Capital All t rans fe rs of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents are subject to individual license. Authorization is seldom granted for foreign participation in domestic enterprises in Yugoslavia. However, foreign loans to Yugoslav enterprises are allowed on a more liberal basis. Unless specifically permitted to retain foreign exchange, residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange held abroad. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved. How- ever, domestic enterprises participating abroad in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Committee for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A Decision of the Yugoslav Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years f rom the date of distribution of the estate. Changes during 1961 January 1. Substantial changes in the trade and exchange system were announced: The multiple rate system was abolished. Practically all transactions in foreign exchange were to take place at the un if ied settlement rate of Din 750 per US$1, the only exceptions being receipts from tourism and foreign missions, and f rom a few specified services, to which special exchange rates would apply. A new import and export regime was announced. (See also March 15, below.) January 16. Settlements with France and Morocco were placed on a convertible currency basis. February 15. The special rate for receipts from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions was set at Din 600 per US$1. March 1. Settlements with the Sudan were placed on a convertible currency basis. March 7. A bilateral trade and payments agreement with Mali came into effect. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA March 15. From this date, settlements on account of all import and export transactions were to be made at the unitary rate of Din 750 per US$1; imports were made subject to newly established customs tar iffs, and the system of subsidies to specified exports and services was put into effect. The new import regime became effective. March 28. Settlements with Burma were placed on a convertible currency basis. May 2. A bilateral trade arrangement was concluded with Cuba. June 1. It was announced that the bilateral payments agreement with Uruguay would be terminated on April 17, 1962. October 11. A. bilateral trade and payments agreement was signed with Ghana. December 27. Several changes took place in respect of the lists of commodities sub ject to the import system. Lists of export commodities under quotas and export commodities subject to license were also changed, and the number of commodities under the restrictive system was decreased. NOTE.—On January 1, 1962, the exchange rate of Din 750 per US$1 was made applicable to all transactions, thus terminating the special effec t ive rates applied to incoming receipts from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions, and from certain services rendered by residents to nonresidents. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonmember Gauntries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Riel is defined as having a weight of 25.3905 milligrams of fine gold. Transactions in foreign currency are carried out on the basis of the rates published by the National Bank of Cambodia. These basic rates are 35 riels = 1 U.S. dollar, 98 riels = 1 pound sterling, and 10 riels = 1 French new franc. An effective rate of 60 riels = 1 U.S. dollar applies to the exchange of foreign currency by foreign tourists staying at certain hotels. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in conjunction with the National Bank of Cambodia; the details are carried out by authorized banks. Import and export control is the responsibility of the Minister of National Economy, who delegates this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. Import licenses are granted by the National Import Committee, and exchange allocations are made by the Committee for the Allocation of Foreign Exchange. Prescription of Currency Imports from the French Franc Area must be paid for in French francs through special accounts. The method of payment or receipt for settlements with other countries is specified in each license. However, there are bilateral clearing accounts in sterling for settlements with Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam; in riels for settlements with the Republic of Viet-Nam; and in U.S. dollars for settlements with Yugo- slavia. Nonresident Accounts Four types of account may be maintained by foreigners or non- residents with authorized banks: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Internal Accounts of Nonresidents, and Nonresident Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require import licenses. Only imports of listed commodities are authorized, including imports paid for with freely available EFAC funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Only licensed importers may submit applications to import. The granting of exchange out of Cambodia's own resources distinguishes 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA between imports from the French Franc Area, which must be paid for in French f rancs, and imports f rom other countries, which are settled in the currency of the supplying country. For imports in both these groups, quotas are announced separately for individual com- modities. Various essential commodities may be imported against bal- ances on EFAC accounts or under licenses benefiting f rom the "10 Per Cent Equipment and Raw Materials" procedure; exceptions are pro- hibited goods and goods that might compete with local production. Imports must be recorded with an authorized bank. Certain listed goods may be imported from Bangkok, Hong Kong, or Singapore under private compensation arrangements without off ic ial exchange, provided that double the amount of goods has been exported and the foreign exchange difference is repatriated. In such cases, an import license is not required, but the necessary exchange control docu- ments must be presented and the transaction recorded with an author- ized bank. Payments for Invisibles The approval of the National Exchange Office is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreigners residing temporarily in Cambodia, or working under contract for public authorities or private enterprises, are permitted to transfer a maximum of 30 per cent of their monthly income, plus an additional 15 per cent if the applicant's w ife is in his own country and an additional 10 per cent if he has children in his own country for whose support he is responsible. Remittances from persons earning less than 5,000 riels monthly in Phnom-Penh or less than 3,500 riels monthly in the provinces are prohibited. Travelers going abroad as tourists receive an allocation of exchange varying with the country or countries of destination. Resident travelers may buy freely one-way or return tickets for foreign travel starting from Cambodia; tickets for other journeys require licenses. A traveler may take out no more than 400 riels in domestic bank- notes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to license, but non- resident travelers may take out the amount they imported less any exchange sold. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports require export licenses, but certain listed items may be exported against an export certificate showing how the exchange proceeds will be received and repatriated and supported by a banker's guarantee. Exports must be recorded with an authorized bank, and the exchange proceeds must be surrendered within one month from the date of payment specified in the export license or certificate. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA The following percentages may, however, be retained in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts: 30 per cent of the proceeds of exports of maize received in U.S. dollars or sterling; 15 per cent of the proceeds of exports of maize received in bilateral clearing currencies or in inconvertible French f ranc s; 13 per cent of the pro- ceeds of other exports received in convertible currencies; 10 per cent of the proceeds of other exports received in other currencies, including inconvertible French francs and bilateral clearing currencies; and 40 per cent of the proceeds of exports of kapok payable in convertible French francs. Balances on EFAC accounts may be used by the exporter or supplier of the goods either to pay certain commercial expenses or to pay for imports of certain essential commodities. These balances may be sold freely at any exchange rate which may be obtained. Convertible currencies in EFAC accounts may be exchanged for other currencies, with the prior approval of the National Exchange Office. Certain listed goods may be exported to Bangkok, Hong Kong, or Singapore under private compensation arrangements, provided that ha lf the value of the goods is imported and that the other half is repatriated in foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles All residents of Cambodia, other than foreigners, must surrender to an authorized bank foreign exchange received by them. Certain hotels that act as agents of the authorized banks in purchasing foreign exchange from nonresident travelers, or that are paid in foreign exchange by travel agencies abroad, may keep 15 per cent of such foreign exchange in an EFAC account. Certain hotels are authorized to pay their guests a premium of 25 riels per US$1 on their foreign exchange encashments. A traveler may bring in not more than 400 riels in domestic bank- notes. Foreign banknotes may be brought in free ly, subject to declara- tion, but residents have an obligation to surrender such notes within seven days. Capital For foreign investments made be fo re May 31, 1956, profits may be remitted abroad after payment of an Exceptional Equipment Tax. The tax rates on profits relating to the year 1959 were 30 per cent on profits of rubber plantations, 45 per cent on profits of companies whose activities were considered vital for the Cambodian economy, and 50 per cent on profits of other companies recognized as useful for the economic development of Cambodia. The tax rates on profits of foreign 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA companies with head offices in Cambodia are reduced by 10 per cent for companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent Cambodian and by 5 per cent for companies whose capital is between 30 per cent and 40 per cent Cambodian. In the event of liquidation of such investments, the original capital may be repatriated in ten equal annual installments. All new foreign investments in Cambodia require prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance; authorization depends, among other things, on a minimum participation of domestic capital. New foreign capital invested in Cambodia must be in foreign exchange acceptable to the National Bank. Profits of up to 20 per cent on approved foreign investments made since May 31, 1956 may be transferred, and, in the event of liquidation, the capital may be repatriated in five equal annual installments in the currency of the original investment. Changes during 1961 January 1. Allocations of exchange for imports from Cambodia's own resources would be made by category of commodity, with a distinc- tion made only between imports from the French Franc Area, which would be paid for in French francs, and imports from other countries, which would be financed in the currency of the country from which the goods were supplied. An initial allocation of 30 million riels for imports from the French Franc Area and 124 million riels for imports from other countries was made for the first half of 1961. (Previously, exchange allocations for imports from Cambodia's own resources were tied to specific currency areas.) January 1. Hotels acting as agents of the authorized banks in purchasing foreign exchange from nonresident travelers were author- ized by the Exchange Office to keep 15 per cent of the foreign exchange paid to them by travel agencies abroad for services rendered to travelers sent to the hotel by such agencies. April 30. A second allocation, amounting to 81 million riels for imports from the French Franc Area and 113 million riels for imports from other countries, was made for the first half of 1961. May 16. The percentage of maize export proceeds received in U.S. dollars or sterling that could be credited to EFAC accounts was established at 30. May 29. The percentage of maize export proceeds received in bilateral account currencies or inconvertible French francs that could be credited to EFAC accounts was established at 15. October. An allocation of 83 million riels for imports from the French Franc Area and 195 million riels for imports from other countries was made for the second half of 1961. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is established at 6% io (= 0.20322 . . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank main- tains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 30,1961 was Sw F 4.316 per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies1 vary between limits resulting from the dollar rate for the Swiss f ranc in relation to the dollar rates for the other currencies. Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's trade and/or payments with nine countries or monetary areas,2 and Switzerland controls its pay- ments with two others.3 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries) may be made freely at free market rates. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensa- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swedish kroner. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 3 Eastern Germany and East Berlin, and Iran. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND tion Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss f ranc s; however, settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident a c coun ts re la ted to the sector of con tro l led payments may be grouped as fo l lows: (1) accounts re la ted to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Rum an i a, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" group, comprising accounts that may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with au thor ized banks in Switzer- land. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany and Iran, which are t rans fe rab le only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods are admitted into Switzerland on the basis of import licenses only; but in accordance with Switzerland's present liberal import policy, licenses are, generally speaking, granted without quanti- tative limitation. However, quotas are established for certain agri- cultural products and, in the category of industrial products, for heavy motor vehicles. Imports f rom OECD countries are liberalized in accordance with the former OEEC code of l ibe ra l iza t ion; imports f rom dollar area countries are subject to the same regime. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made freely through the f ree market. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly; however, payments to Eastern Germany (including East Berlin), Iran, and countries with which Switzerland has bilateral payments agreements are controlled. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regula- tions. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is f ree. Capital Transfers of capital f rom countries in the sector of controlled pay- ments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; t rans fe rs of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and f rom other countries may be made freely, except that certain outgoing t rans fe rs of capital exceeding Sw F 10 m i l l ion each requ ire permission. Banknotes Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Changes during 1961 No s ign if icant changes took place du r ing 1961. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANGANYIKA Exchange Rate System The currency of Tanganyika is the East A f r ican Shilling, which is maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving a relationship to the U.S. dollar of Sh 1 = US$0.14. The East A f r ican shilling circulates freely in the East Afr ican currency area, which comprises Tanganyika, Kenya, Uganda, Zanzibar, and the Aden Protectorate. The East A f r ican Currency Board stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to issue East A f r ican currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r ican currency at the parity rate, subject to a premium of % of 1 per cent. The banks in Tanganyika base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing standard allocations of foreign exchange is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export trade is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing licenses also rests with the Controller, to whom applications to import or export must be submitted before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Prescription of Currency Tanganyika is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanganyika to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or East Afr ican shillings to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area may be obtained in sterling or East A f r ican shillings from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in East Afr ican shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area with authorized banks are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANGANYIKA Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Kenya and Uganda are generally permitted free of license, exceptions being rice and maize. Goods may be imported from countries outside East A f r ica either under open general license from specified areas or groups of countries, or under specific license, which permits specific transactions not authorized under open general license. Most commodities f rom the majority of countries are at present covered by open general license. Specific licenses are required for all goods originating in Japan and the Soviet bloc and for imports from all countries of wheat and flour, maize, rice, sugar, knitted rayon in the piece, uncut diamonds, cut but not set diamonds, and gold. With few exceptions, the movement of imported goods within East A f r ica is unrestricted. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly. Persons going abroad, i.e., outside the East Afr ican currency area, for holidays are permitted to take with them Sh 1,000 in East A f r ican currency notes and, on application to a bank, up to the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in other currencies. Banks are also authorized to sell foreign exchange for business travel, for educational purposes up to £ stg. 750 a year, for maintenance of relatives up to £ stg. 360 a year, and for gifts up to £ stg. 250 a year. The granting of exchange for other purposes requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat and flour, maize, sugar, animal and vegetable oils, beans, meat, ju te and raw nylon fibers, copra, and machinery require licenses, and may be subject to restriction. Other goods may be exported without license. With few exceptions, the movement of imported goods within East Afr ica is unrestricted. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANGANYIKA Export proceeds, other than those in Sterling Area currencies, must be offered to an authorized bank in Tanganyika for conversion into East A f r ican shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign and domestic currency notes. Capital Movements of capital between Tanganyika and other Sterling Area countries are not restricted. There is no restriction on the investment of fore ign funds in Tangany ika, but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" f o r . t he investment, which is in normal circumstances given f ree ly. Changes during 1961 December 9. Tanganyika became independent, but retained its position as a Sterling Area territory. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 