 TW E N T Y - S E C O ND A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T IONS 1971 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNAT IONAL MON E TARY FUND TW EN TY - S E COND A N N U AL R E PO RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1971 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 5, 1971 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Second Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART I 1 2 2 2 3 4 5 6 6 7 8 8 10 10 15 19 in Restrictive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Restrictions on Current Invisibles . . Multiple Currency Practices Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports Advance Import Deposits Import Surcharges Export Incentives and Export Taxes Bilateral Payments Arrangements . . .. Measures Affecting Capital Gold III. Regional Arrangements PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria . Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia . South Africa Spain Sudan CONTENTS Page 293 295 299 302 306 308 313 315 320 325 328 335 336 339 343 349 354 356 357 362 365 369 372 377 381 Page Surinam 385 Swaziland 388 Sweden 389 Switzerland 393 Syrian Arab Republic 396 Tanzania 401 Thailand 405 Togo 408 Trinidad and Tobago 412 Tunisia 416 Turkey 421 Uganda 427 United Arab Republic 432 United Kingdom 437 United States 448 Upper Volta 455 Uruguay 460 Venezuela 465 Viet-Nam 468 Yemen Arab Republic 474 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic o f. 476 Yugoslavia 479 Zambia 485 Analytical Appendix 491 Vlll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction In 1970 there continued to be a rapid expan- sion in world trade. In terms of total value, the 1969-70 increase amounted to slightly more than 14 per cent, about the same rate of expansion as that recorded for the previous year. For industrial countries as a group, both imports and exports rose by some 15-16 per cent, while the increase in trade of primary producing countries was on the order of 10-11 per cent. Of the increase in the value of world exports in 1970, slightly less than half was a reflection of higher prices, particularly for manufac tured prod- ucts, rather than of increased volume. Prices of primary products rose considerably less steeply, on the average, than those of manufactures. Al- though food prices registered an increase ap- proaching the average rate for manufactured goods, the trend in prices of most other primary products was much weaker, as those of base metals showed little change and those of agricul- tural raw materials declined appreciably. The changes in the restrictive systems of mem- ber countries that took place in the period under review, although not affecting a major portion of world payments, appear on balance to have re- sulted in a reduction in restrictions on current payments. This occurred despite the difficulties in the world payments system witnessed in 1968 and 1969. At the end of 1970 there were somewhat less than 10 members out of a total of 117 whose restrictive systems could be described as complex as regards their rate structure or their exchange systems as a whole. Several important reforms took place, in Ecuador, Indonesia, the Philippines, Turkey, and Viet-Nam in 1970 and in Yugoslavia in early 1971. These reforms led to simplifica- tions of restrictive systems and to a relaxation of general restrictions. France, in two successive steps, relaxed tourist allowances in 1970, and this action was followed by a number of the Opera- tions Account countries.2 Early in 1971 France 1 The period under review in this Report covers 1970 and the ea r ly pa rt of 1971. 2 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Cam- eroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, People's Repub- lic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mala- gasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. again increased its tourist allowances. Other coun- tries, both developed and developing, each as a group, also increased their tourist allowances. These relaxations of restrictions were aided by an increase in 1970 in the international reserves in developed and developing countries, as a group. In addition to the relaxations in exchange restric- tions and the exchange reforms undertaken, the resort to bilateral payments agreements also de- clined in the period. In the sphere of nontariff trade barriers, however, the situation is less clear. With regard to import surcharges, advance im- port deposits, and measures to stimulate exports, there appears to have been a small net increase in restrictions. Also, in several member countries the role of state trading increased. Although it is difficult to quan t ify the effect of this, it is possible that on balance there was an increase in restric- tions insofar as nontariff barriers are concerned. In its consultations and through the provision of financial resources, especially in support of stand-by arrangements, the Fund has continued to work for a multilateral trade and payments system based on effective par values and free from restrictions on current payments. In addition, in the past year the Fund reviewed its policy with respect to the granting of temporary approvals of multiple currency practices and of restrictions on payments and transfers for current in terna t ional transactions that are subject to approval under the Fund's Articles of Agreement. The review centered on the need for uniformity of approach in granting approval and the importance of grant- ing approval only for a specified time normally not to exceed 12 months. The approval policy with respect to undue delays in mak ing exchange available for the settlement of current in te rna- tional transactions that result from a govern- mental l im i ta t ion and give rise to payments ar- rears was the subject of a separate review. Such delays are payments restrictions under Arti- cle VIII, Section 2(a) and Article XIV, Section 2 of the Fund Agreement, whether the limitation is formalized, as for instance by the imposition of compulsory wa i t ing periods for exchange, or is in fo rmal or ad hoc. As a result of its review, the Fund adopted a decision which drew attention to the particular harm that informal or ad hoc meas- 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ures that undu ly delay the availability or use of exchange for current international transactions do to a country's financial relationships because of the uncertainty they generate. The Fund provided general guidelines for their treatment. These guidelines made provision for the possibility of Fund approval of the exchange restriction, to- gether with financial assistance by the Fund to support a program which inter alia envisages a phasing out of the restriction. Of major potential importance for trade and payments prospects of the developing countries was the agreement in principle reached within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Devel- opment on a system of generalized preferences in their favor to be implemented in 1971. Proposals are pending in the United Nations that developed countries shall not raise any new tariff and non- tariff barriers to primary products from develop- ing countries, and that existing tariff barriers to imports of manufactures and semimanufactures of interest to developing countries are to be elimi- nated progressively (Strategy for the Second De- velopment Decade). Also of importance was a High-Level Meeting in Tokyo of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), at which a majority of donor countries expressed support for the prin- ciple of un ty ing bilateral and multilateral aid. Two countries —the Yemen Arab Republic and Barbados —became members of the Fund in 1970, raising the total membership to 117 poun- tries at the end of the year. During the period under review Ecuador accepted the obligations of Article VIII, which have now been accepted by 35 member countries accounting for some three fourths of world trade. Par values were changed by Ecuador and Turkey in 1970 and by Yugo- slavia in early 1971. Initial par values were estab- lished by the Republic of China and the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo. On May 31, 1970, Canada announced that it would, for the time being, not maintain the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within the permitted margins, i.e., the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar has been allowed to fluctuate. The Fund has since been in close consultation with Canada on the question of the re-establishment of an effective par value. This Report, and in particular the following sections, centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have direct balance of 2 payments implications, such as import deposits, import surcharges, and measures to stimulate exports. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Among industrialized countries, some further relaxation of import restrictions took place, mainly in the United States (for crude and fuel oil from Canada and Venezuela), the United Kingdom (for imports from the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) coun- tries 3 and imports of coal), France (for imports from CMEA countries and for imports of North African wine), Germany (formal liberalization of most commodities of CMEA origin, although most already were liberalized de facto), Italy (for im- ports from CMEA countries), the Netherlands ( for imports from CMEA countries), and Israel and Japan (specified items from all sources). Den- mark reorganized its import controls, a move which involved additional liberalization of imports from CMEA sources and to some extent also from other sources, e.g., for coffee. Japan in addition decided to accelerate its liberalization program. New Zealand liberalized to the point where license-free commodities account for about two thirds of private imports. South Africa continued liberalization of import restrictions following dis- invocation of Article XII of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). With the greatly reduced scope of quantitative restrictions and the tariff reductions resulting from the Kennedy Round, attention is now being given increasingly to the problem of the remaining non- tariff barriers. Among developing countries, many felt con- strained by balance of payments considerations not to relax import restrictions significantly. The following are some of the countries that did lib- eralize appreciably. Colombia and Uruguay added a number of commodities to the free list, and Chile expanded its permitted list on several occa- sions during 1970. Colombia, in addition, licensed controlled imports more liberally and reduced the 3 A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES coverage of its list of prohibited imports. Some liberalization occurred in China, Ghana, and Morocco. The Philippines relaxed its restrictions on imports and import payments when it floated the peso. Cameroon abolished all quotas under its 1971 import program and replaced them with a small list of goods for which prior authorization is necessary before they can be imported. Some import liberalization took place in Turkey after the change in par value. The backlog of exchange applications was eliminated by the end of 1970 and under the new import regime for 1971 a sub- stantial percentage of imports was freed from re- strictions. Developing countries that tightened import re- strictions included the following. Algeria took fur- ther measures to curb imports classified as non- essential. The Khmer Republic sharply reduced allocations of official foreign exchange for im- ports. Peru in March 1970 extended for an in- definite period its prohibition on the import of goods listed as nonessential. Ceylon revoked the open general license for imports and made the former open general license items subject to quotas. Tanzania in August 1970 made many open general license goods subject to specific im- port license. Indonesia added some further import prohibitions, although the list remains short and Indonesia otherwise maintains an import system free of restrictions. A number of developing coun- tries that maintain relatively minor import restric- tions, and some of which have stated that they maintain these primarily for protective reasons, continued their policy of gradually subjecting ad- ditional commodities to an individual import license; these countries included Guyana, Jamaica, Mexico, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. In Mexico, the licensing requirement for many items was to be maintained for a spe- cific period only. Sierra Leone added to the list of goods requiring specific licenses. On Decem- ber 31, 1970, Honduras revised the import tariffs which henceforth will apply also to imports from the other participants in the Central American Common Market, which were previously exempt from all import duties. At the same time Hon- duras repealed the 30 per cent import surcharge adopted under the Protocol of San Jose. Subse- quently, the other Central American countries, maintaining commercial relations with Honduras, required a guarantee on Honduran products equivalent to the duties applicable to imports from the rest of the world. Import discrimination through quantitative re- strictions appears, on balance, to have been fur- ther reduced. This is due primarily to (a) formal abolition in Western European countries of re- strictions on commodities of CMEA origin, and (b) the progressive termination of bilateral trade and payments arrangements. A number of coun- tries, including the Bahamas, Ivory Coast, Kuwait, Niger, Rwanda, and Uganda, ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. Austria freed from quantitative restrictions a sig- nificant number of commodities of Japanese origin. Important developments with respect to import taxation included the announcement by the United Kingdom in October 1970 of the substitu- tion of import levies for the present system of agricultural subsidies. Algeria in January 1971 announced the abolition of tariff preferences for nonessential consumer goods of French origin. Restrictions on Current Invisibles As noted in the previous Report, the United Kingdom at the beginning of 1970 lifted the re- striction on travel allowances which it had intro- duced in 1966. France increased its exchange allocation for tourist travel twice in 1970 but did not fully lift its restriction. Certain of the Opera- tions Account countries also relaxed their travel restrictions. Early in 1971 France further in- creased its exchange allocation for tourist al- lowances. Ecuador abolished all restrictions on payments and transfers for current payments, including those relating to travel, when it estab- lished a new par value and accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII. Japan, which had ceased to restrict travel exchange in 1969, increased fu r- ther the automatic allocations which authorized banks may make available without license from the Bank of Japan. El Salvador raised the travel allocations and reduced the amount of guarantee deposit to be made by intending travelers, while Guatemala increased the exchange allowances for tourist and business travel, abolished the 100 per cent guarantee deposit, and relaxed restrictions on certain other current invisibles. Iceland raised the automatic allowance for tourist travel as well as certain special allowances for travel agencies. India also relaxed restrictions on foreign travel. Morocco increased the exchange allowances for 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS business travel and also raised somewhat the al- lowance for tourist travel. Many developing countries and some others found it necessary to maintain or tighten existing restrictions on travel exchange. The Dominican Republic continued a zero allocation for tourist purposes, and an intensification of restrictions took place in Algeria, Chile, Greece, Israel, Nigeria, Peru, and Uruguay. A number of countries revised their exchange control regulations affecting domestic or foreign banknotes, often in connection with those con- cerning travel exchange. France resumed the practice of redeeming domestic banknotes pre- sented by banks abroad, provided they were mailed direct to the head office of the Bank of France. The Operations Account countries gen- erally took similar measures. Both France and the United Kingdom raised the limits on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that may be exported by travelers, and China doubled the foreign currency that travelers may take out. Malaysia and Singapore doubled the amount of domestic currency that travelers may take out or bring in. Italy restricted the crediting of lire bank- notes presented for credit to convertible nonresi- dent accounts to those notes that were mailed by banks abroad direct to the head office of the Bank of Italy, and Sweden made the repurchase from banks abroad of large-denomination bank- notes (SKr 10,000 notes) subject to prior ap- proval by the central bank. Several developing countries imposed severe restrictions on the im- port and export of domestic banknotes. Malawi instructed the local banks to refuse acceptance of domestic banknotes offered by banks abroad, Kenya ceased redeeming domestic banknotes offered by banks abroad, Tanzania and Uganda prohibited the import and export of domestic currency and ceased redeeming domestic bank- notes offered by banks abroad, and the Sudan prohibited the import and export of domestic banknotes. Peru imposed restrictions on the im- port and export of national currency. With respect to current invisibles other than travel expenditures, the following are some of the developments. Zambia lifted its restriction on the transfer of profits and dividends. The Philippines, following its exchange reform in February 1970, relaxed restrictions on the making of payments for most current invisibles. Guatemala, in addi- 4 tion to relaxing restrictions on tourist and busi- ness travel, relaxed those on family remittances and remittances for student expenditures. On the other hand, Chile reduced the allowances for family remittances, insurance premiums, and some other current items. Argentina late in 1970 for a few days suspended all exchange transac- tions, then gradually permitted various types of current and capital payments, and by the end of the year no longer maintained any restrictions on current payments. Arrears on the transfer of current payments, often consisting largely of arrears on import pay- ments, continue to exist in several member coun- tries. These include the Dominican Republic, Ghana, Nigeria, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Haiti, Paraguay, the Philippines, and Turkey cleared their arrears on current payments. Nigeria in April 1970 partially cleared its arrears on non- import current payments, but arrears on import payments increased sharply. Multiple Currency Practices Major exchange reforms took place in Ecua- dor, Indonesia, the Philippines, Turkey, and Viet- Nam. Most of these reforms resulted in a clear improvement of the exchange system, and those in Ecuador and Turkey involved the establish- ment of new par values. China established an initial par value shortly after eliminating its minor multiple currency practice. Venezuela eliminated its exchange subsidies on exports of coffee and cocoa and on imports of wheat and powdered milk. The major reforms referred to above included the following features. The Philippines introduced a multiple currency practice when it established a fluctuating free market rate and prescribed the surrender at the par value of 80 per cent of the proceeds from four leading export commodities. Subsequently the surrender at the par value re- quirement was replaced by exchange taxes (sta- bilization taxes) on exports. Indonesia eliminated its "overprice" arrangement and merged its two ex- change markets, the BE and DP markets,4 at the 4 The BE (Bonus Export) market included payments for imports classified as essential and semiessential and certain other services and receipts from a major part of exports. All other transactions took place in the second- ary DP (Complementary Exchange) market. Under the dual market system a complicated multiple exchange rate system was in effect. In addition to the two basic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES level of the DP market but maintained a separate, more appreciated exchange rate (the closing BE rate) for imports financed with foreign aid; late in 1970 the aid rate also was eliminated, and only one multiple currency practice remained, result- ing from an exchange tax on exports. Ecuador's exchange reform involved the unification of the two exchange markets, the abolition of all mul- tiple currency practices, and the establishment of a new par value; as noted above, the country then accepted the obligations of Article VIII. Viet- Nam introduced a parallel exchange market with a fixed exchange rate of VN$275 per U.S. dollar for most transactions. Turkey established a new par value for its currency at a more depreciated level (devaluing from LT 9 to LT 15 per U.S. dollar) and at the same time effectively eliminated the existing multiple exchange rates. As part of the reform, however, Turkey introduced a less depre- ciated buying rate of LT 12 per U.S. dollar to be applied to the export proceeds of certain tradi- tional agricultural commodities. The exchange profits resulting from the purchase of export pro- ceeds derived from the sales of these commodities were channeled into an Exchange Equalization Fund for the financing of investment in export- oriented projects. Among countries operating a flexible exchange rate policy and maintaining multiple currency practices, Brazil and Colombia continued to de- preciate their currencies from time to time, taking account of the rate of domestic inflation and other criteria. Chile followed a similar policy until July 1970. In the Philippines the peso depreciated, after the reform early in the year, until late Sep- tember when its rate was stabilized in the market. Korea, the other country with a flexible rate policy, does not have multiple currency practices; adjustments in the rate of the won in 1970 were not substantial. Peru maintained its dual market system but pegged the previously fluctuating rate in the draft market. Bolivia eliminated a multiple currency practice resulting from deposit requirements for export proceeds. Ceylon reclassified some import exchange rates, the BE and DP rates, a number of implicit exchange rates arose from an export surrender price scheme (overprice scheme) under which exporters were required to surrender varying portions of export proceeds at the BE rate, while the remainder could be retained for sale at the more depreciated DP rate. commodities, bringing about a widening of the scope of the certificate market. Chile made certain changes in the exchange taxes applicable to the brokers' market. Pakistan again extended its bonus system to additional categories of foreign exchange earnings (mainly by granting a 10 per cent bonus on major traditional exports that had been sold at the official rate since the inception of the bonus scheme in 1959, and a 45 per cent bonus on exchange received from foreign tour- ists), and, through this system, further raised the effective cost of imports. Brazil again suspended the exchange tax on cocoa exports for a specified quantity of sales. The operation of the special exchange market in France did not undergo any significant change, but in the United Kingdom the property currency market was closed and transactions previously channeled through it were henceforth settled in the investment currency market. The operation of the latter was affected by a number of changes in administrative approval practices, outstanding among which was the wider permission granted late in 1970 to borrow non-Sterling Area cur- rency for portfolio investment in "foreign cur- rency securities" (see section on Measures Affect- ing Capital, below). There were no major changes in the operation of the free exchange market in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union. Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports For many member countries an assessment of the restrictiveness of the import regime requires consideration of the effects of changes in advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, etc. Cases in point are Israel, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, where these factors may have been as important as changes in formal liberalization. Another complicating factor, one that is increas- ing in importance, is state trading, which tends to obscure the purchasing policies followed with respect to nature, volume, price, quality, and origin of imports. A number of developing coun- tries brought additional import commodities under the control of the government or of state-man- aged agencies. They included Algeria, Ceylon, Guyana, India, Iraq, Malawi, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Advance Import Deposits The United Kingdom, having reduced the rate of deposit in several steps from 50 per cent to 20 per cent, terminated its import deposit scheme on December 4, 1970, two years after its introduc- tion. Japan on May 18, 1970 suspended the ap- plication of advance deposits by reducing the rate from 1 per cent to zero per cent. In March 1970 Spain permitted advance deposits to be financed by the foreign suppliers, and as from January 1, 1971 the requirement was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent and extended until June 30, 1971, although the scheme had been scheduled to expire on December 31, 1970. Israel introduced an advance deposit scheme applicable mainly to private sector imports of goods subject to a cus- toms duty of 30 per cent or more, representing some 16 per cent of total commodity imports in 1969-70. Banks were requested not to increase advances to importers for the purpose of financ- ing the deposits. At the beginning of 1971, the deposit rate was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Morocco, and Somalia abolished their advance deposit re- quirements during 1970. In Ecuador, after the prior import deposit rates were raised in March- April 1970, the Government announced in August that these rates would be reduced quar- terly in accordance with a program designed to lead to the elimination of advance deposit re- quirements on List I imports (approximately 75 per cent of total imports in 1969-70) by June 30, 1971 and on List II imports by September 30, 1972. Korea made the application of its advance deposit requirements nondiscriminatory; previ- ously, they had affected Japanese suppliers more than those in more distant countries. Colombia reduced the rates of advance import deposits gradually but substantially. Many rates were re- duced from 130 per cent to a range of 30 to 1 per cent or from 70 per cent to 30 per cent; also the advance deposit requirement equivalent to 95 per cent of the foreign currency needed for import payments was eliminated for import payments made within 30 days of shipment. Chile continued the process of exempting most import commod- ities from advance deposit and of reducing the coverage of the 10,000 per cent rate which had served as a de facto prohibition on private sector imports of the items concerned; by August 3, 6 1970 all advance deposits other than the 10,000 per cent rate had been abolished. Viet-Nam in September 1970 reintroduced advance import deposit requirements and in October increased their commodity coverage; some of the rates were lower for specified imports under U.S. and French aid. In October 1970, Yugoslavia intro- duced a 50 per cent advance import deposit that was additional to a requirement in force since late 1967 prescribing that the full dinar counter- value must be deposited prior to the making of the import payment. The rate of the new deposit requirement was reduced in December 1970 and January 1971, and it was eliminated on Janu- ary 24, 1971. As part of the exchange reform of February 21, 1970 the Philippines abolished the cash margin deposit requirements on the opening of import letters of credit ("special time de- posits"). However, in July the commercial banks adopted a uniform 30 per cent cash margin re- quirement on the opening of import letters of credit which was subsequently increased to a uni- form rate of 50 per cent. Turkey halved its guar- antee deposit rates when it changed its par value and made further reductions in January 1971. Import Surcharges Costa Rica on September 1, 1970 introduced the 30 per cent surcharge provided for by the Protocol of San Jose, the last member of the Cen- tral American Common Market to do so. In May 1970 Ecuador raised the stabilization surcharges from 11 per cent to 20 per cent on List I imports and from 22 per cent to 38-55 per cent on List II imports. In July the surcharges on List II im- ports were reduced to 20-30 per cent and in August all surcharges were eliminated. Nigeria reduced its import surcharge from IVz per cent to 5 per cent in April 1970. Turkey reduced the stamp duty on imports from 25 per cent to 10 per cent when it established a new par value. Uruguay on October 21, 1970 announced an increase of 5 percentage points in the surcharge on most commodities. Ghana's budget provided for the imposition of a temporary surcharge at rates ranging from 5 per cent to 100 per cent, in conjunction with the freeing of a wide range of imports from adminis- trative controls; some of the rates introduced, however, went beyond 100 per cent. Israel in August 1970 applied a temporary sur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES charge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value to vir- tually all imported commodities; it was scheduled to expire on December 31, 1970 but was ex- tended to March 31, 1972. Paraguay eliminated the exemption from import surcharges for con- sumer goods and introduced a sales tax on im- ports. In July 1970 Yugoslavia introduced a tem- porary import surcharge of 5 per cent on the c.i.f. value, but all duty-free commodities (ma in ly raw materials) remained exempt, and in Janua ry 1971 the 5 per cent surcharge was reduced to 2 per cent. Export Incentives and Export Taxes In France, the preferential rediscount rate for medium-term export credits was abolished for sales to EEC countries but maintained for sales to other countries outside the French Franc Area. Effective July 1, 1971 the interest rate on export credit will be adjusted to the levels in force in other industrial countries, and the cover available will be raised from 80-90 per cent to 100 per cent. In October 1970 France created special facilities for certain exporters selling to the United States and Canada. In Japan, the cen- tral bank raised its interest rates on export finance by about 1 per cent per annum; these rates have since been kept unchanged, although the Bank of Japan's official discount rate was lowered twice during the past six months. In October 1970, with the agreement of the U.K. authorities, the clearing and Scottish banks in- creased the special fixed rate of interest on all new commitments under medium-term and long- term loans for export and shipbuilding finance to 7 per cent; this rate had been unchanged at 5l/2 per cent since 1962. Furthermore, the rate at which commercial banks made short-term export finance available under direct guarantee from the Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD) was raised at the same time from bank rate to l/2 per cent over bank rate. In April the ECGD's permissible liabilities were raised from <£3.9 bil- lion to .£6.5 billion. Austria also raised the over- all ceiling on export credit insurance greatly. In the United States, the Export-Import Bank late in October 1970 relaxed its requirements for approv- ing export-financing loans to U.S. commercial banks. In the Netherlands, the first "frame-work agreement" concerning export credit was con- cluded, the pa r tner coun try being Iran. Spain in September 1970 allowed the commercial banks more leeway in granting export credit. In Iran, the central bank in May 1970 reduced the interest rate charged to the commercial banks on f u n ds used for the gran t ing of export credit. Many measures were taken in the field of direct export incentives. Brazil applies a large number of fiscal incentives to exports, principally of manu- factured commodities. These incentives now include exemptions not only from indirect but also direct taxes, as well as a subsidy in the form of a tax credit against the indus tr ial product tax on do- mestic sales. Paraguay also granted tax exemp- tions on exports. At the time of the devaluation Turkey simplified its tax rebate system. Ghana introduced an export bonus system intended to encourage nontraditional exports. In September 1970 the Philippines enacted an export incentives law providing for exemptions f rom cer ta in taxes including the export tax. As noted under Multiple Currency Practices above, an exchange tax on exports was introduced in 1970 to replace the 80:20 mixing arrangement. Argentina broadened the scope of export finance facilities for "promoted exports." Pakistan for the first time since the in- ception of the export bonus scheme accorded a bonus on basic t rad i t ional exports and also, on Ju ly 21, 1970, granted a 45 per cent bonus on exports of sugar. Ecuador in August 1970 granted subsidies ranging from 2 per cent to 7 per cent based on the f.o.b. value to a few exports. The Syrian Arab Republic created a Development Fund for Industrial Exports. Colom- bia reduced the term of tax credit certificates under its export bonus scheme from 12 months to 9 months to increase the incentive to minor ex- ports. Ecuador in July 1970 imposed taxes of 7 per cent and 15 per cent on the f.o.b. export value of bananas and minor exports, respectively, but shortly thereafter these tax rates were reduced to 3 per cent and 7 per cent. In August, in the context of the devaluation of the sucre, export taxation was extended to most exports with three tax rates of 5 per cent, 10 per cent, and 15 per cent. China eliminated the export surcharge on certain agricultural exports from July 1, 1970. Thailand granted special rebates corresponding to 25 per cent of the applicable rice export premium ( t ax) on most exports of rice in large quantities. Malaysia on February 2, 1970 introduced a sur- 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS tax on exports of rubber, which came in addition to the regular export tax but was applicable only when the export price exceeded M$0.60 a pound. Ivory Coast in 1970 raised existing export taxes to tax away part of the windfall profits resulting from the 1969 devaluation. Other changes in export controls included the following: the United Kingdom simplified the ex- change control formalities for exports, and France first raised the amount beyond which export transactions must be registered with an authorized bank and later raised this amount again and ap- plied the same relaxation to imports. The United States relaxed its export controls in East-West trade by liberalizing 222 product categories. Greece simplified administrative procedures by transferring to the Bank of Greece the power to issue permits for the export of a wide range of products. The surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds were tightened in Algeria and Nigeria. Bilateral Payments Arrangements In 1970, Fund members made further progress in terminating their remaining bilateral payments agreements. Some 22 payments agreements were terminated in the period end-1969 through Jan- uary 1971, of which 11 were agreements with nonmembers. In some cases, furthermore, agree- ment was reached to abolish specified bilateral payments arrangements in the near future. The number of payments agreements between Fund members has now been reduced to some 50, and several of these are inoperative, but the number of agreements between members and nonmembers still is well over 200. Progress was especially marked in Austria, Ghana, Mali, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Noteworthy was the termination of payments agreements with the U.S.S.R. by Aus- tria, Lebanon, and Nepal. Finland decided to continue settlements with Czechoslovakia and Poland on a convertible currency basis during 1971, although the payments agreements with these countries have not formally expired. Member countries utilizing clearing arrange- ments continued to experience difficulties in op- erating them. Some again found it necessary to sell excess clearing balances to third parties, often at a substantial discount, or to increase swing credits significantly. 8 Measures Affecting Capital In the industrialized countries many changes in capital controls took place; on balance there was a minor relaxation of the curbs on capital outflows. The United States maintained its direct invest- ment controls and its foreign credit restraints, al- though making both more flexible, retained the Interest Equalization Tax, and raised the mar- ginal reserve requirement on Euro-dollar borrow- ings from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. Relaxation measures introduced at the beginning of 1970 under the direct investment program included in- creased transferability between different groups of countries of earnings allowable for reinvestment abroad, permission to use short-term borrowing abroad as an offset to foreign direct investment, the elimination of the US$250,000 minimum for the export term-loan ceiling, and the introduction of special allowances for the financing of exports to affiliates and for capitalized expenditures for exploration. The United Kingdom maintained the voluntary program of restraint on exports of capital to the more developed countries of the Sterling Area and the mandatory restrictions on direct investment outside the Sterling Area. How- ever, the United Kingdom first formalized and liberalized controls over foreign currency invest- ment in offshore funds by institutional investors and then liberalized the rules for the borrowing of non-Sterling Area currency by residents for the purpose of purchasing "foreign currency secu- rities"; as a result, the investment currency pre- mium declined sharply beginning in December. The United Kingdom also merged the property currency market into the investment currency market (August 19, 1970), thus making the pur- chase by residents of personal real estate outside the Sterling Area considerably less expensive. The exchange rate for investment currency ended the year at a premium of about 24 per cent over the official rate and subsequently declined to 16 per cent. Early in 1971 the United Kingdom took measures to restrict residents from borrowing in the Euro-dollar market for conversion into pounds, but the restrictions on direct investment outside the Sterling Area by U.K. residents were eased. France relaxed its restrictions on direct investment outside the French Franc Area, in- creased somewhat its approvals of inward direct investment, and introduced an insurance scheme essentially for new direct investment in the Op- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES erations Account countries. France also intro- duced special controls over real estate operations by nonresidents in France, and, with a view to influencing the Euro-franc market more closely, fur ther reduced the scope of the exemptions from prior approval for borrowing abroad. The ceilings imposed on the net foreign currency position of the authorized banks, which had required them to contribute about US$150 million to the central reserves in 1969, were lifted altogether in 1970, after the mandatory dollar deposits had been reduced as an intermediate step. At the end of the year, the exchange rate for devises-titre was around F 6 per U.S. dollar, implying a premium of close to 10 per cent on the par value. Japan relaxed restrictions on inward and outward direct investment and on portfolio investment by resi- dents in foreign securities, provided the investment took place through the intermediary of securities investment trusts, and allowed life and nonlife insurance companies to invest in foreign securities, subject to an overall ceiling. Japan also dis- couraged long-term borrowing abroad and fu r ther encouraged a "yen shift" in import financing. The Netherlands allowed a number of placings of Euro-guilder notes, under a queue system and subject to the terms of these issues being com- parable to those for domestic issues and to the entire issue being sold to nonresidents other than U.S. citizens or U.S. residents. Also, in April 1970 the restrictions on the net foreign asset posi- tion of the authorized banks were lifted. Foreign issues in Germany and Switzerland remained sub- ject to informal rationing but were at relatively high levels; early in 1970, the Swiss market was closed for two months to foreign borrowers. The German Bundesbank reintroduced differential marginal reserve requirements on additions to banks' foreign liabilities. Furthermore, the Bundes- bank decided to sell money market paper to German commercial banks only under the condi- tion not to re-sell it to nonresidents nor to give it en pension abroad under repurchase agreements. In addition, the Bundesbank, by certain minimum reserve measures, discouraged the banks from taking up credit abroad in deutsche mark for onlending in any currency to customers abroad and it also took some additional measures to dis- courage borrowing abroad by banks. Difficulty in obtaining funds in the international bond market, which narrowed considerably in 1970, led many borrowers to secure medium-term Euro-currency bank credits. Italy on October 1, 1970 restricted residents' purchases of shares of foreign financial institutions to those listed on at least three foreign stock exchanges "of prime importance," but later dropped this special requirement. China issued a policy statement on the facilities available to inward direct investments; screening would be geared more closely to the desired in- dustrialization objectives. Indonesia after the ex- change reform freed the negotiation of rupiah securities and foreign currency securities between residents and nonresidents, as well as the import and export of such securities. Ecuador and Peru, when introducing comprehensive reforms of their exchange system, abolished the freedom for resi- dent-owned capital to move abroad, and both took steps to obtain the repatriation or surrender of resident-owned assets held abroad. The Philip- pines adopted a law setting ceilings on govern- ment borrowing abroad and government guaran- tees for private foreign borrowings. Under this law the central bank may not approve new foreign borrowings that would increase the country's total debt service burden above 20 per cent of the average foreign exchange earnings of the previous three years. Argentina, when resuming exchange transactions late in 1970 after the temporary suspension, did not restore the previous freedom for outward movements of resident-owned capital. A number of developing countries imposed or tightened restrictions on local borrowings by non- resident-controlled companies. They included Malawi and Trinidad and Tobago. Jamaica and Venezuela, which had imposed such restrictions in 1969, maintained them in 1970. Singapore, in an effort to facilitate the opera- tion of its Asian dollar market, introduced a sys- tem of numbered accounts for non-Sterling Area residents. The Philippines several months after the exchange reform took a similar step and on July 21, 1970 permitted designated banks to accept deposits in foreign currencies under a numbered accounts system. The interest rate on these de- posits was payable in foreign exchange and ex- empt from the existing interest ceilings, and the Government guaranteed that there would be no restrictions on the withdrawal or outward transfer of the deposits. The scheme was designed pri- marily to stimulate the repatriation of resident- owned capital. The Syrian Arab Republic intro- 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS duced additional facilities for the opening of foreign currency accounts by residents and non- residents, and Iraq took similar measures. Two Sterling Area countries, Malta and Trini- dad and Tobago, extended exchange control to the rest of the Sterling Area and in doing so imposed restrictions on certain capital transac- tions. Uganda, for capital control reasons, ex- tended exchange control to Kenya and Tanzania, and early in 1971 Tanzania extended exchange control to Kenya and Uganda for similar reasons. Gold Changes in regulations were relatively minor. Indonesia abolished the requirement of an import license issued by the Ministry of Trade. France and certain Operations Account countries facil- itated the import by travelers of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, but France brought gold medals under the general controls over import and export of gold. Early in 1971, the U.K. restric- tions on dealings in gold coins and the use of the metal for manufacturing medals, etc., were re- laxed. China lifted certain controls over the im- port of gold. III. Regional Arrangements On June 30, 1970 Denmark, Ireland, Norway, and the United Kingdom began negotiations with a view to full membership in the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC). Talks on other ar- rangements began with Austria, Sweden, and Switzerland on November 11, and with Finland, Iceland, and Portugal on November 24. Negotia- tions for a nonpreferential trade agreement with Japan began on September 17. Negotiations were begun by the United Arab Republic and Lebanon on September 24, and September 30, respectively, to enter into preferential trade agreements with the EEC. On January 20, 1971, Argentina began negotiations for a nonpreferential trade agreement and on March 2, 1971, Cyprus began exploratory talks for a possible agreement with the EEC. The second Yaounde Convention signed on July 29, 1969 came into force on January 1, 1971 for five years. The new Convention renewed the associate status of the existing participants.5 On 5 Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Repub- lic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Togo, and Upper Volta. 10 the same day, the second association agreement signed at Arusha on September 24, 1969 also came into force, linking the EEC with Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda until January 31, 1975. On March 19, 1970 a nonpreferential trade agreement was signed with Yugoslavia for a period of three years beginning May 1. This was the first negotiation concluded by the Community since the common commercial policy was put into effect at the end of the transitional period on January 1, 1970. Agreements were reached with India and with Pakistan in mid-1970 for the pref- erential entry of such products as jute, textiles, silks, and handicrafts into the EEC. Preferential trade agreements were signed with Israel and Spain on June 29, 1970 and went into force on October 1. On November 23, 1970 a protocol was signed providing for passage from the preparatory to the transitional stage in the Turkey-EEC asso- ciation existing since September 12, 1963. On December 5, 1970 a preferential trade agreement was concluded with Malta aimed at completing a Malta-EEC customs union within ten years from April 1, 1971. At its meeting of May 25-26, 1970, the Coun- cil of the EEC approved two important regula- tions further implementing the common commer- cial policy. One established a common system for imports from "third" countries that either are GATT members or are treated as GATT coun- tries and the other set up a common procedure for administering quantitative import and export quotas in trade with nonmember countries. They superseded the three interim regulations of De- cember 10, 1968, which constituted the first step toward a common commercial policy. The first regulation covers trade with all GATT members and assimilated countries and establishes a new, increased liberalization list, bound at Community level and covering 898 of the 1,097 full headings in the common customs tariff, while the 1968 list covered 824 headings. In September 1970 this common liberalization list for the GATT countries was further expanded. Imports from state trading countries remained covered by a regulation of December 19, 1969, the commodity list of which was expanded in mid-1970. The May 1970 Coun- cil meeting also empowered the Commission to conduct negotiations and consultations with GATT countries without asking the Council's permission in each case. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS At The Hague in December 1969 the Commu- nity members' heads of state or government agreed that a plan in stages should be worked out during 1970 with a view to the creation of an economic and monetary union. On February 9, 1971, the Council of the EEC decided to move by stages toward such a union. The aim is to com- plete the whole process of economic and monetary union by the end of 1980, with the first stage due for completion by the end of 1973. Monetary cooperation will in part rest on a mechanism of mutual assistance. A system of short-term monetary support has already been in existence since early 1970 with quotas in a total amount of US$1 billion, while another US$1 billion can be made available if the need arises. The same quota shares apply to the new medium- term monetary support system in an overall amount of 2 billion units of account, which will become operational from January 1, 1972 for an initial period of four years and then will be auto- matically renewable every five years. Once the new scheme becomes effective, member states will have to consult their EEC partners before seeking medium-term assistance outside the Community. Normally, the interest rate will be halfway be- tween the International Monetary Fund's rate and the current market rate. In the first three years, credit will be granted for a maximum of two to three years, but after that the period will be two to five years. Although the transition and the final stages of monetary union remain to be determined, the aim is that by the end of the decade the relative par values of EEC currencies will be irrevocably fixed. However, if the member countries do not reach agreement on further progress by the end of 1973, or if one or more of the member countries feel that progress has not been parallel in the economic and monetary fields, then there will be an extended period of two years during which the necessary adjustments may be made. If the ad- justments are not made within this extended period, the measures already taken toward a monetary union will be automatically inoperative from the end of 1975. The membership of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 6 was expanded when Ice- 6 The present members are Austria, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Finland is linked to EFTA by the Finland- EFTA Agreement. land acceded on March 1, 1970. Within EFTA, an examination of nontariff barriers was con- tinued; two new agreements to abolish such meas- ures took effect on January 1, 1971, and both are open to participation by other countries. The customs territories of the member countries of Benelux (Belgium, the Netherlands, and Lux- embourg) were unified on February 1, 1971; this unification does not preclude the maintenance of formalities prescribed by national legislation in matters of excise tax, turnover tax, and similar taxes. At their meeting in Kabul in December 1970, the Council of Ministers for Asian Economic Co- operation adopted the "Kabul Declaration" calling for new steps in trade and monetary cooperation. A preparatory committee of interested ECAFE member countries was set up to fur ther examine the proposal for an Asian Clearing Union and to negotiate an agreement on the terms and condi- tions of such a Union, and intergovernmental committees were established to fu r ther examine proposals for a Trade Expansion Program and an Asian Reserve Bank. In the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA)/ the Council of Ministers approved the membership application of British Honduras. The East Caribbean Currency Authority joined the regional settlements agreement between the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago. In the East African Community, Uganda ex- tended exchange control to Kenya and Tanzania, and early in 1971 Tanzania extended exchange control to Kenya and Uganda for the purpose of restricting capital outflows only. The member countries of the West African Customs Union (UDEAO) 8 in May 1970 adopted a protocol creating a West African Economic Community (CEAO) open for accession by other African countries. Togo attended in the capacity of observer. The CEAO would have as its aims improvements in infrastructure, transpor- tation, and communications, the promotion of an accelerated and more integrated industrialization policy in the member countries, and the promotion of a higher level of intraregional trade. The 7 Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 8 Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Treaty establishing the CEAO is expected to be signed before the end of 1971. The bilateral cus- toms union between Mauritania and Senegal was terminated in February 1970. The Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) 9 on January 22, 1970 decided on a considerable reduction in the rates of the com- mon external tar iff, import duties on pharmaceu- ticals being cut by 75 per cent and those on most other goods by 50 per cent. The Libyan Arab Republic, the Sudan, and the United Arab Republic reached agreement in prin- ciple on the establishment of an economic union. In connection with the establishment of the Central American Monetary Stabilization Fund, the Central American countries signed a swap arrangement with Venezuela. Also to strengthen the Stabilization Fund, the U.S. Government ex- tended a line of credit to the central banks of the Central American countries. Costa Rica im- plemented the 30 per cent import surcharge pro- vided for in the Protocol of San Jose; thus, these surcharges were in effect in all the Central Amer- ican Common Market countries by the end of 1970 when, as mentioned before, they were re- pealed by Honduras. In the Latin American Free Trade Association J) Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Re- pub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon. (LAFTA),10 the clearing mechanism was fur- ther expanded by the addition of several recip- rocal credit agreements. New agreements between pairs of LAFTA countries (including Argentina- Venezuela, Argentina-Uruguay, Colombia-Uru- guay, Mexico-Uruguay, and Peru-Uruguay) or be- tween LAFTA countries and individual other Latin American countries (Dominican Republic-Vene- zuela, Dominican Republic-Colombia) were con- cluded; the balances under the agreements between LAFTA countries are multilaterally cleared under existing arrangements. The Andean G roupX1 of LAFTA countries reached agreement in principle on the treatment of new inward direct investment. Also, within the Group, a free trade area for some 4,000 commodities went into opera- tion between Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. The new Customs Union between Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, replacing the 1910 arrangements, came into effect in March 1970. There have been no major changes in the ar- rangements under the Regional Cooperation and Development Treaty signed by Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey in April 1967 and described in the Nine- teenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions. 10 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 1 * Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other coun- try which was not a member of the Fund at the time this Report was written is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1970. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1971. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec- tion "Changes during 1970" may include refer- ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in drafting the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1970 and, for a few countries, at the beginning of 1971. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the official exchange rates are given, the latter usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the sur- veys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, further details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see below). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1970, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is ex- plained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have com- mon rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica- tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require- ments affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries or monetary areas, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international impor- tance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by non- residents in accounts with authorized banks. Pay- ments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in for- eign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing re- quirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun- tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli- cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com- mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require- ment that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the spe- cial arrangements or limitations attached to inter- national receipts and payments in respect of capi- tal items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Pro- ceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum- marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro- vided for certain countries having a multiple cur- rency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1970, the more signifi- cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1970 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1971 are indicated at the end of certain surveys or in footnotes to the text. * * * The individual country surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned. Prepara- tion of this part of the Report was under the general direction of Mr. J.H.C. de Looper, Ad- visor, Exchange and Trade Relations Department. 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani or Af 45.00 = US$1. The Afghanistan Bank (Da Afghanistan Bank, the central bank) charges com- missions ranging from Vio of 1 per cent to l/2 of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. The Bank's official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar are Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively. The official selling rate applies to certain foreign exchange payments by the Central Government. The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karakul (which is exported only to the convertible currency area), wool (except cashmere wool exported to the convertible cur- rency a rea ), cotton, and natural gas (which is exported only to the U. S. S. R . ); to 30 per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Govern- ment, government enterprises, and domestic compa- nies; and to purchases of bilateral agreement currencies for maintenance in Afghanistan of embassies and state trading organizations by the respective bilateral partner countries. Exchange subsidies are applied to the official buying rate as follows: Af 3.12 per US$1 for export proceeds from cotton when payment is received under a bilateral payments agreement; Af 10 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of wool; Af 25 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible cur- rencies from exports of cotton; and A f 20 per US$1 for proceeds from exports of karakul. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of wa lnu ts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The A fghan i s tan Bank maintains its operational free market selling rate for the U. S. dollar within Af 2.0 per US$1 of the daily free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1970, the free market rate of the A fghan is tan Bank was Af 86.50 buying, and Af 87.00 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 89.75 buying, and Af 90.25 selling, per US$1. The Afghanistan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which are set by applying their par va lues to the current free market rate for the U. S. dollar, and free market rates for the Indian rupee and Pak is tan rupee that are determined by demand and supply for the currencies concerned. The Afghanistan Bank from time to time seils in the free ma rket bila- teral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting large ly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bilateral payments agreements; most of th is exchange is purchased by government commercial and industrial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for U. S. S. R. clearing dollars was Af 60.50 per US$1 on December 31, 1970, and that for mainland China clearing sterling, which is maintained at par with the free market rate for pounds sterling, was Af 198.80 per <£ stg. 1. On the same date, the selling rate for clearing dollars under the payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia was Af 55.50 per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facili- tated by the existence of relatively large companies, some of them government owned or government con- trolled, specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements l must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agricultural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agree- ments, however, specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fu l f i l lment of the commitments under- taken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with b i la te ral agreement countries is carried out on a com- pensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Gov- ernment or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. 1 Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments arrangement with Ind ia under which the bulk of trade is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange is provided at the official rate for imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in afghanis calculated at the pre- vailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans from commercial banks. The Afghanistan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt serv- ice and other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are pro- hibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries from which pay- ments will be received in convertible currencies. Kar- akul is not exported to payments agreement countries. Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate, irrespective of destination. The net proceeds of all exports other than karakul, wool, and cotton, irrespec- tive of the currency in which they accrue, must either be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export receipts from cotton are subject to an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 25 per US$1 for convertible currency receipts and Af 3.12 per US$1 for exports settled under bilateral payments agreements. Convertible currency receipts from wool exports are paid an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 10 per US$1 and those from karakul exports are paid an exchange subsidy of Af 20 per US$1. Proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Afghan public and private 20 sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the rema in ing 70 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of India, receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts f rom the embassies and state trad- ing organizations of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the official rate. All other receipts f rom invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered, as is domestic private investment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Pri- vate Investment Law (February 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for five years, beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five consecutive years after approval of the investment; (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for five years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than eight years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from per- sonal income tax and corporate tax on interest on for- eign loans which constitute part of an approved invest- ment; (5) exemption from export duties for ten years after the approval of the investment; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where such products are substantially competi- tive with imports in price and quality. The law also establishes that an investment approved by the Invest- ment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghanistan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Joint ventures of foreign and Afghan capital are encouraged, but no specific percent- ages of domestic participation are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not precluded by law. Gold Residents may freely import and purchase, hold, and sell domestically gold in any form. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1970 February 10. The exchange subsidy on proceeds from cotton exported to the convertible currency area was increased from Af 19 to Af 25 per US$1, raising the effective export rate from Af 64 to Af 70 per US$1. April-July. Import duties were imposed on the items that had been removed from the list of prohibited imports in September 1969. April 22. The prohibition on the export of cotton- seed was lifted. June 21. The exchange rate for free mainland China clearing sterling was appreciated to the level of the Afghanistan Bank's free market rate for pounds sterling and henceforth followed the fluctuations of the latter. For the past few years the rate quoted had been at a discount on that for pounds sterling. June 29. The middle rate for free U. S. S. R. clearing dollars was raised from Af 55 to Af 60 per US$1. July 1. The middle rate for free clearing dollars for Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia was raised from Af 52 to Af 55 per US$1. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar. The exchange rate for the French f r anc is a fixed rate of D AI = F 1.12499, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Cen- tral Bank of Algeria deals in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies at fixed rates, free of commissions or charges. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area x are established by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the daily rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these currencies. The exchange rate applicable to "agreement dollars" is the average rate for the U.S. dollar in the Paris market on the day preceding the en try on the clearing account. The predevaluation rate for the French franc and the prerevaluation rate for the deutsche mark are applica- ble to certain payments or receipts in the respective currencies. The Central Bank charges on its transac- tions in non-Franc Area currencies a commission rang- ing from 0.2 per mill to 1.5 per mill, depending on the na tu re of the transaction, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their correspondents in the French Franc Area at the end of each day but they are under certain condi- tions permitted to hold outside the French Franc Area cover for documentary credits. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Cen- tral Bank of Algeria assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given author- ity to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for all commodities are issued on the advice of the competent ministry by the Ministry of Commerce and require the visa of the Cen- tral Bank. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Office National de Commerci- alisation des Produits Viti-vinicoles (ONCV), the 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti f rancs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U. S. dollars. 22 Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Na t iona le d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), the Societe Nationale de Constructions Mecaniques ( SONACOME ), and other similar organizations have a monopoly over the import of a large number of com- modities. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Com- mercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petro- leum and petroleum products. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. All for- eign borrowing requires the prior approval of the Min- ister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Algeria has traditional ties with the French Franc Area, but the Central Bank of Algeria does not main- tain an Operations Account with the French Treasury and Algeria applies exchange controls to transactions with the Area.2 Settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French f rancs. Settlements w i th countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Algeria maintains payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are usually made through Paris in French francs, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied until early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individ- ual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Depar ture Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its f inanc ial relations with foreign countries are also applied to Alge- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization from the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely for authorized imports from the French Franc Area, and with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies; with proceeds from the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the credit- ing of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area (including A lger ia); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person resid- ing in a coun try in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person con- cerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the in termed iary of a notary public; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may au thor ize the crediting of other payments. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; outward transfers require individual approval. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. All imports from bilateral pay- ments agreement coun tr ies require a license. Imports from all other countries of a large number of commodi- ties are subject to either quan t i ta t ive restriction or a special import procedure. Imports of firearms, ammu- nition, and explosives require an import license from the Ministry of the Interior (for civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense (for munitions and explosives). All other imports from coun tr ies w i th wh ich Algeria does not ma in ta in bilat- eral payments agreements may be made freely; some ALGERIA liberalized imports, however, require the prior visa of one of the import monopolies. The Government has the monopoly over the impor- tation of many commodities through ONACO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH, SONA- COME, and other similar organizations. Imports that are not liberalized are in principle licensed in accordance with an annual import program which is based on global quotas. Payments for liberalized imports, unless originating in a payments agreement country, do not require approval by the Central Bank. Liberalized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submis- sion of an invoice to the customs when imported from a country with which no payments agreement is in force, but must subsequently be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Liberalized imports exceeding DA 10,000 and all nonliberalized imports must prior to the transaction be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be pre- sented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. All imports for which pay- ment has to be made before the goods reach Algeria mu st be domiciled with an authorized bank, and, unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance pay- ments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. Payments for liber- alized or nonliberalized imports may be approved by, and settled through, the Postal Administration up to an import value of DA 5,000. Import licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Imports made "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any kind, from the French Franc Area require an authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declaration procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been registered with an author- ized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance w i th the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only a f ter the shipping documen ts have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domi- ciled the import, open a documen tary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Imports f rom the French Franc Area are regulated by Notice No. ZF2 of October 23, 1963, which sets out a procedure similar to the procedure applied to imports from other countries. Goods no rma l ly subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of a sh ipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when sup- porting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and mar i t ime contracts, (2) travel expen- ses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educa- tional expenses, (5) advertising expenses, and (6) pay- ments relating to government transactions with foreign companies. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. The transfer of family remittances is suspended. All insur- ance must be concluded with Algerian companies. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons or married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence f rom A lger ia). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment docu- ments, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. Residents of other coun- tries who are employed in Algeria under the program of technical cooperation are permitted to transfer abroad 30, 50, and 100 per cent, respectively. For workers from other countries, who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment docu- ments, the corresponding percentages are 25, 45, and 100. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the renumeration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other coun- tries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 100 a person a trip (DA 50 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents, including the approval of the wali of his place of domi- cile; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 100 a person a year for adults and DA 50 for children under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. Algerian workers who hold a card 24 of ONAMO (Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre) are entitled to the equivalent of DA 200 a person a trip. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arab ian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,500 a person; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in bank- notes by those traveling over-land. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equ ipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammuni- tion, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are prch hibited regardless of destination. Some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area that are not included in the free export list, and all exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements require licenses. The export of specified products is reserved for certain state trading organizations. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 30 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be regis- tered, if they were not registered earlier. If the pay- ment period is more than 30 days, the exports may be registered only after authorization is given by the Cen- tral Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the Central Bank, and registration must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, including those to the French Franc Area, must be surrendered upon receipt and in any case not later than 30 days following ship- ment, except when prior authorization from the Central Bank is obtained. Petroleum companies holding mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria at least 50 per cent of the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, subject to the same time limits. Certain percentages of the proceeds from exports other than petroleum and petroleum derivatives may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. Exporters to the French Franc Area may retain 5 per cent of their export proceeds (up to DA 20,000 per export transac- tion), while those to the convertibility area (i.e., all other countries except those with which payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreements are in force) may retain 12 per cent if they export to the United States or Canada and 8 per cent in all other instances. EFAC accounts are denominated in dinars and are held with the bank at which the export is registered. Certain payments may be made from these accounts without prior approval by the Cen- tral Bank. et la Transformation de TOr et des Autres Metaux Pre- cieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, inc lud ing gold. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are suspended. ALGERIA Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sur- rendered. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reim- port Algerian d inar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds the reo f) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any desti- nation are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Ordinance No. 66-284 of Sep- tember 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code pro- vides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the for- eign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tar iff protection. Remit- tances of profits and retransfer of capital are only per- mitted in respect of investments approved under Ordinance No. 66-284. Cold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports on behalf of authorized industrial users, and licenses for imports for industrial use have not been issued for some time. Under the terms of Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution Changes during 1970 On various occasions dur ing the year, a large num- ber of commodities became subject to either quan- titative restrictions or a special import procedure. January 9. A trade and payments agreement with North Viet-Nam was signed and came into force provi- sionally the same day. All normal current payments would be effected in convertible currencies. January 16. Ordinance No. 70-6 created the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR). The principal task of AGENOR would be the distribution of unworked gold for industrial and professional use, under directives established by the Minister of Finance and transmitted by the Central Bank. The previous func- tions of the Central Bank concerning the distribution of gold to jewelers were transferred to AGENOR. This agency could purchase in Algeria, hold, transform, and distribute any other precious metal. AGENOR could also, w i th in the framework of the exchange control regulations, import and export any precious metal. January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Mali was terminated.3 February 19. Ordinance No. 70-21 created SONACOB (Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Bois et Derives) to which was reserved the import of wood and related products; BOIMEX was abolished. February 19. Ordinance No. 70-22 created SNCOTEC (Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Textiles et des Cuirs) to which was reserved the import of textiles and leather products. GITEXTAL, GADIT, GIAC, and GICP were abolished. The only remaining professional association was GAIRLAC.4 June 23. Instruction No. 5HC of the Ministry of Finance and Planning was issued. With effect from July 1, petroleum exporting companies had to repa- triate the ir export proceeds upon collection and not later than 30 days af ter the date of shipment. Balances maintained in Algeria by companies holding mineral rights could not be transferred abroad without authorization of the Central Bank. Amoun ts of export proceeds repatriated by petroleum companies in any 3 Notice No. 67 of November 12, 1970 of the Minister of Finance announced that henceforth all settlements would take place in con- vertible currencies. 4 GA IRLAC was subsequently abolished by Ordinance No. 71-62 of February 17, 1971. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA given month in excess of their surrender obligation could no longer be carried over to following months. Amounts repatriated by June 30, 1970 in excess of the surrender obligation could not be credited against the obligations arising from petroleum exports effected prior to June 30, 1970. Export proceeds f rom hydro- carbon products could no longer be retained in EFAC accounts. The Instruction also defined the methods by which repatriation had to be effected; in all cases, the proceeds had to be credited to dinar accounts with an authorized bank in Algeria. July 1. Notice No. 63 of June 23 of the Ministry of Finance maintained the tourist allowance for residents traveling by sea or air at the equivalent of DA 700 a person a year (DA 350 for children under 15) but doubled the travel allocation (also available for tourist travel) for residents traveling over-land to the equiva- lent of DA 100 a person a year (DA 50 for children under 15). The additional travel allowance for resi- dents traveling by sea or air to a country of the French Franc Area was reduced from the equivalent of DA 500 a person a trip (DA 250 for children under 15) to the equivalent of DA 200 a person a trip (DA 100 for children under 15), but was henceforth applicable to travel to all countries. July 20. An Order of the Minister of Finance and Planning specified the conditions under which the Cen- tral Bank would authorize the transfer of the sales or liquidation proceeds of enterprises and shares or parts representing capital. The beneficiaries of transfers of this nature could only be physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality who had invested capital in enter- prises that had been approved by virtue of the Invest- ment Law (Ordinance No. 66-284 of September 15, 1966). July 20. An Order issued by the Minister of Finance and Planning specified the conditions under which the Central Bank would authorize the transfer of profits accruing from capital invested in Algeria by physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. The beneficiar- ies could only be such persons who had invested capi- tal in enterprises that had been approved by virtue of the Investment Law (Ordinance No. 66-284 of September 15, 1966). The remittances could not exceed 15 per cent a year of the amount of the foreign partic- ipation (as defined in the Order), and could take place only once a year, after the close of the company's fiscal year. The Central Bank's approval would be required to remit eligible but untransferred profits in later years. August 12. Notice No. 65 of the Ministry of Finance tightened the surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds from commodities other than petroleum and 26 petroleum products. Henceforth all export proceeds had to be repatriated immediately after the date on which payment fell due, i.e., the due date specified in the sales contract. This date could not be beyond 30 days (against 90 days previously) following shipment, except when prior authorization f rom the Central Bank had been obtained. August 20. Imports from all sources of some 150 commodities or groups of commodities were made sub- ject to quantitative restriction by an Order of August 18. August 20. Instruction No. 21 of August 19 of the Ministry of Finance went into effect. Family remit- tances were suspended. Additional requirements had to be met to obtain foreign exchange for medical care abroad. Also, authorized banks were instructed to require additional documentation prior to granting foreign exchange to cover medical expenses abroad. August 20. Notice No. 64 of August 19 of the Min- istry of Finance suspended the tourist allocation of DA 700 a person a year and reduced the travel alloca- tion to DA 100 a person a trip (DA 50 for children under 15). Algerian workers holding a card issued by ONAMO (Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre) could obtain the equivalent of DA 200 a person a trip. September 18. Notice No. 66 of September 16 of the Ministry of Finance reduced the travel allocation for residents traveling by means other than sea or air from the equivalent of DA 100 a person a trip to the equiva- lent of DA 100 a person a year (DA 50 for children under 15). The special regulations for Algerians work- ing abroad were unchanged. October 12. Two financial agreements were signed with Morocco, one of which provided that certain set- tlements between the two countries would henceforth be channeled through special accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Algeria and denominated in Moroccan dir- hams and Algerian dinars, respectively. The latter agreement came into force on November 1. December 10. Two Orders of the Minister of Finance amended the two July 20 Orders (see above). The only changes were in the documentation require- ments for applications to remit liquidation proceeds or profits. December 18. Notice No. 68 of the Minister of Finance specified the conditions under which passages by air, sea, or rail could be settled on behalf of resi- dent or nonresident travelers. December 31. Ordinance No. 70-93 containing the budget was published. It provided for the elimination of the last remaining tariff preferences for goods of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution French origin, with effect from January 2, 1971. The import tariff would henceforth comprise only the mini- mum preferential ta r i f f, for goods of EEC origin; the normal tar iff, for goods originating in countries that accord Algeria most-favored-nation treatment; and the general ta r i f f, w i th rates three times those of the normal ta r i f f, for goods originating elsewhere (includ- ing Hong Kong and Japan). ALGERIA 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency ARGENTINA On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in the exchange market, in which the buying and selling rate on December 31, 1970 was $a 4.00 per US$1. The Central Bank of Argentina deals with the commercial banks at $a4.00 per US$1, buying and selling.1 Exchange transactions between banks and individuals are subject to a tax of %o of 1 per cent. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the fixed exchange rate of $a 4.00 per US$1, subject to freely agreed premiums or dis- counts. Forward exchange purchases by the public are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transac- tion, or to cover import payments made under docu- mentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee. Swap operations designed to finance traditional exports may be concluded direct by authorized institutions. Other operations, such as the financing of nontradi- tional exports, and financial loans to industrial or com- mercial enterprises must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior consideration. Forward exchange pur- chases covering import payments require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original maturity; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the delay). Such contracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward exchange market as a seller of U. S. dollars at a premium which at the end of 1970 was 6 per cent per annum. Argentina accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement with effect from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this purpose. The operations of exchange agencies and exchange houses have been suspended since October 1970.2 1With effect from April 6, 1971 a flexible exchange rate policy was introduced and the Central Bank's buying and selling rate was changed to $a4.04 per US$1. 2 Both types of institution were allowed to resume operations on January 25, 1971. 28 Transactions with other countries must be settled in convertible currencies. Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Para- guay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clear- ing system. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, pro- vided that the accounts are fed with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the exchange market. Goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Labor if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Asesoria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial. Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are temporarily prohibited. All maritime imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent on the freight. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of ll/2 per cent payable normally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or ?io of 1 per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper prod- ucts, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and taxes ranging from $a 0.02 to $a 0.2 a kilogram on imports of iron and steel for the Steel Program. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms being established in the Province of Tucuman, by certain institutions, or according to the intended use of the goods; goods imported from LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's conces- sion lists (including the special lists for Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Uruguay). The commodities that do not require an advance deposit include most raw materials and fuels, many capital goods, and many semimanufac- tured goods for the production of nontraditional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rent exchange rate in the exchange market. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be under- taken: opening a letter of credit; withdrawing shipping documents from the intermediary bank; purchasing for- ward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is automatically refunded after 180 days. Payments for specified capital goods imported by pri- vate firms (with the exception mainly of those in lists applicable to LAFTA countries) when valued at over US$20,000 and purchased with foreign or domestic credit, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, if the importer uses exclusively his own funds. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required when the terms of payment are not in accordance with the prescribed minimum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equiva- lent of US$1 million. There are certain special arrange- ments relating to exemption from advance deposits for imports by automobile manufacturers; nevertheless, payments by the automotive industry may be made without any restrictions. Advance payments for imports other than capital goods are only permitted in excep- tional circumstances. Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in for- eign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for all categories of invisibles without limitation or, except in the following cases, documentary evidence. Remittances of profits and dividends require documentary evidence that all tax and social security obligations have been met. For loan repayments, a prescribed amortization schedule must exist, as evidenced by a domestic bank- ing institution. Authorized institutions selling exchange for travel purposes must verify that the requested amounts are for legitimate travel purposes and the travel ticket must be shown. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic banknotes and coins, except gold coins; no limitations are imposed on the amount of foreign banknotes which can be taken out as part of the exchange obtained for travel purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but min- imum export prices are established for many agricul- tural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. Export- ers of most traditional commodities are required to repatriate and sell in the exchange market the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports within 10 working days after shipment. Proceeds from nontraditional ARGENTINA exports may be surrendered after the due date of pay- ment, which is freely negotiated between the exporter and the buyer. The proceeds of exports to Chile (except those of nontraditional exports) must be col- lected within 90 days of the bill of lading and surren- dered within 10 working days after the due date. Some products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the State Department of Commerce upon the proposal of the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on which the National Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the Secretariats of Agriculture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The principal export taxes range from 5 per cent to 25 per cent. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products. Nontraditional exports receive incentives which take the form of (1) customs duty drawbacks, (2) rebates on internal taxes, specified as a portion of f.o.b. exports, (3) exemption from the sales tax in respect of exported commodities, and (4) specified deductions for income tax purposes, measured as a portion of export value. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain exports of goods and services. This system provides financing for 80-90 per cent of their value, depending on the nature of the commodity or service, with terms of up to eight and one half years for capital goods, three years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one and one half years for other goods. The same terms apply to the freight and insurance premiums involved, provided that Argentine means of transport and services are used. The National Export Credit Insurance Commis- sion provides credit insurance for exports of capital goods and consumer durable goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained and used for authorized transactions. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA are restricted. Sales of exchange in connection with investments, placements, or deposits within Argentina or abroad require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Argentine indus tr ial or commercial firms require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argen t ina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institutions and houses (see footnote 2) authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regulations permitting nonbank resi- dents to buy gold coins and bars f rom these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold coins are unrestricted and free of duty. Imports of gold bars are subject to the exchange regulations applicable to imports of other commodities; imports by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 3/io of 1 per cent, and those by others are subject in addition to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. Changes during 1970 January I. A new monetary unit, the peso, replaced the "peso moneda nacional" at a ratio of $a 1 = M$N 100. No appreciation or depreciation was in- volved. February 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Uru- guay came into force. February 1. By virtue of Law No. 18526 of December 31, 1969, the stamp tax of %o of 1 per cent on exchange transactions within Buenos Aires City between banks and individuals was replaced with a general tax at the same rate; it was applicable through- out Argentina. February 6. Laws Nos. 18587 and 18588, and Decree No. 604, established a new system for the pro- motion of new industrial activities and for the expan- sion and improvement of existing industries. Import duties on specified capital goods were modified w i th effect from June 12, 1970, to abolish most of the spe- cial regimes that had allowed imports at rates of duty different from those in the customs tariff. February 10. Decree No. 459 lowered the export tax on certain types of beef from 8 per cent to 6 per cent. February 10. Decree No. 460 increased the tax rebate on exports of certain products from 12 per cent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, and established a 5 per cent rebate for exports of specified canned meats and extracts. 30 February 20. The Central Bank by Circular No. R.C.384 instructed the authorized institutions with respect to the application of Law No. 18250 and Decree No. 5030/69, both concerning the obligation to transport impo r ts in Argentine-flag vessels. March 20. Cen tral Bank Circular No. B720 amended Circular No. B503 of December 28, 1965 concerning the es tab l ishment of fo re ign banks in Argen t ina. April 21. Decree No. 1625/70 established the imple- menting provisions for Decree-Law No. 18587 of Feb rua ry 6, and prov ided, in t er a l ia, for p re fe ren t ial t rea tment for foreign capital in basic industries (such as oil, energy, and transportation) and for the estab- lishment of industrial areas. May 23. Imports of synthetic fertilizers were prohib- ited, except for use in the manufacture of drugs and med ic inal products. June 9. All exchange transactions were suspended by the Central Bank's Telephone Communication No. 2394. June 15-16. Decrees Nos. 28, 38, and 39 provided import du ty concessions on certain materials required for steel and power production, and for the manufac- ture of f e r t i l i z e r s, medicines, and pesticides. June 16. Decree No. 47 provided for restoration of the import duty concessions canceled by Law No. 18588 of February 6, 1970, provided that national production was insufficient. June 18. The exchange market was reopened by Telephone Communication No. 2405 and the Central Bank of Argentina began to deal with commercial banks at a rate of $a 4.0 per US$1, buying and selling; previously the rate had been $a 3.5 per US$1, buying and selling. June 18. The Central Bank by Circular No. R.C.386 informed the authorized institutions that it would deal w i th them in U.S. dollars, whenever they wished, at a quotation which it would announce daily and that could d i f f er up to 1 per cent f rom the rate of $a 4 per U.S. dollar. June 18. Telephone Commun ica t ion No. 2406 estab- lished a charge of $a 0.02 per US$1 on U .S. bank- notes sold by the Central Bank to authorized banks and exchange houses. These were authorized to charge the ir h a n d l i ng costs for such bankno tes to their custom- ers, but not more than $a 0.02 per US$1. June 18. Law No. 18715 established a special tax on the net foreign exchange position of banks and exchange agencies at the close of business on June 8, 1970 of $a0 .50 per US$1 or its equivalent in other fore ign currencies or gold coins held. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 19. Telephone Communication No. 2407 estab- lished that foreign exchange acquired by authorized banks from exporters at exchange rates applicable before June 18, and corresponding to exports approved before June 18, had to be surrendered to the Central Bank at those earlier exchange rates. The Communica- tion also permitted authorized banks to charge a com- mission of up to l/2o of 1 per cent on such purchases from exporters. June 27. Decree No. 52 established concessional import duties for ships, as provided for by Law No. 18587. July 11. Decree No. 191 established new import duties on most goods. Duties of 15 per cent were reduced to zero and higher rates were reduced by 15 to 30 percentage points. Goods imported from LAFTA countries, when covered by complementarity agree- ments signed by Argentina, were subject to the conces- sionary rates agreed upon or those of Decree No. 191, whichever were lower. July 15. Law No. 18718 introduced an additional tax of 12.5 per cent on exports. Subsequently, Decree No. 192 introduced various export taxes of up to 35 per cent. September 10. Decree No. 908 provided that official c.i.f. import prices could be established when subsi- dized export prices of foreign suppliers threatened damage to Argentine industries. September 10. Imports of specified used goods, including textile articles, electrical machinery (and spare parts), locomotives, and vehicles, were prohibited by Decree No. 909. Exemptions could be granted by the Secretariat of Industry and Internal Commerce. September 10. Decree No. 910 provided for exemp- tion from import duties on goods used in the iron and steel industry, subject to individual authorization by the Ministry of State for Industry and Internal Commerce. September 10. Circular No. R.C.391 widened the scope of the financing system for promoted exports, as laid down in Circular No. R.C.378 of September 3, 1969. September 16. Decree No. 2551 authorized the Sec- retariat of Foreign Trade and the State Petroleum Cor- poration (YPF) to establish an autonomous agency for the promotion of exports. September 29. Decree No. 1208 provided for the reduction or elimination until May 31, 1971 of export duties on wool shipped from certain ports in Patagonia. October 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Vene- zuela was signed and came into effect immediately. Payments for petroleum and related products were not covered by the agreement. October 8. Decree No. 1495 reduced or eliminated the export taxes on beef for a 30-day period; the ARGENTINA reduction resulted in the freeing of one third of the varieties of beef previously subject to tax, and taxes of 5 per cent or 6 per cent on the remainder. October 14. Decree No. 1711 suspended the provi- sions of Decree No. 7921/67 by which the prohibition on imports of heavy trucks and of long-distance buses and their chassis had been lifted in 1967. Goods shipped prior to October 14 that were either already in an Argentine port or were covered by an irrevocable letter of credit were exempted from the renewed prohi- bition. October 15. The exchange market was closed by Tele- phone Communication No. 2423. October 19. The Central Bank reduced the premium at which it sold U. S. dollars forward from 8 per cent to 6 per cent per annum for all maturities. October 19. Telephone Communication No. 2428 allowed the partial resumption of exchange transac- tions. The Central Bank resumed dealings in foreign exchange at $a 4.0 per US$1, buying and selling, and operations in foreign exchange were resumed for the following transactions: (1) spot and forward opera- tions between banks authorized to deal in exchange; (2) purchases of spot and forward exchange from customers from all transactions; (3) sales of spot exchange to customers for the following purposes: (a) import payments in respect of obligations due (includ- ing freight and insurance) only when covered by doc- umentary credits or formalized by bills accepted or guaranteed with bank intervention, (b) payment of installments on imports of capital goods, and (c) pay- ment of obligations due arising from credits granted by the IBRD, IDB, IFC, U. S. Export-Import Bank, and U. S. AID; (4) compensation of purchases of forward exchange under contracts related to exports under recip- rocal credit agreements to LAFTA countries; and (5) liquidation at maturity of forward contracts entered into up to October 14, 1970. In addition, sales of spot exchange for the official sector and transactions with international organizations that were not covered by 3(c) above, required the prior approval of the Central Bank. Prior approval was also prescribed for financial trans- actions requiring forward cover. All other exchange operations remained suspended, and exchange houses and exchange agencies were not reopened. October 21. Telephone Communication No. 2430 authorized the resumption of exchange transactions for the following: bank commissions and charges; consular fees; freight and travel fares; expenses incurred abroad by Argentine ships and airplanes; information services; interest due on foreign loans; and insurance, reinsur- ance, and claims paid by domestic insurance compa- nies. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA October 28. Telephone Communication No. 2435 allowed the resumption of exchange transactions for the following: accrued profits and dividends, provided that the firms concerned could document that they were current with their tax and social security contri- butions; repayment of foreign currency loans, when effected not more than five working days prior to the maturity date and provided that the proceeds of the loans had originally been sold in the exchange market and that there was a stipulated amortization schedule documented through or with the intervention of a domestic bank ing institution; remittances by embassies and members of the diplomatic corps; payments for the chartering of ships; copyrights; cable, telephone, and postal fees; fees and expenses related to certificates of birth, baptism, marriage, death, etc.; and registration abroad of patents and trademarks. November 3. The October 8 reduction or elimination of export duties on meat was continued for a fu r ther period of one year by Decree No. 2183. November 5. Telephone Communication No. 2439 permitted the following exchange transactions: (1) opening of documentary credits for the import of spec- ified goods; and (2) sales of spot exchange for the fol- lowing purposes: (a) clearing of purchase contracts for forward exchange at maturity; (b) interest and charges on documentary credits, bills, or collections in respect of imports; (c) reimbursement of ships' excess expendi- ture; (d) membership subscriptions to international organizations; (e) registration fees for attendance at in terna t ional conferences; and (f) attendance at scien- tific, cultural, artistic, and sporting events by foreign individuals and groups. November 6. The list of permitted imports was issued for which, by virtue of Telephone Communica- tion No. 2439, authorized banks could open letters of credit. It comprised mainly essential commodities. The list was revoked on December 2, 1970 by Telephone Communication No. 2450. November 9. Telephone Communication No. 2440 permitted purchases of foreign exchange through authorized banks by persons traveling abroad, subject to stipulated conditions attesting to the bona fides of the transaction. The foreign exchange could not be purchased more than five working days prior to depar- ture. November 10. It was announced that the exemption of beef exports from export duty would be continued for a fur ther 12 months. November 10. Telephone Communication No. 2441 permitted sales of foreign exchange for the following: retirement payments and pensions to beneficiaries resi- dent abroad; students' expenses; purchases of medicines by individuals; subscriptions to newspapers and periodi- 32 cals and purchases of books (only by private persons who were not impor ters); contributions to foreign social security institutions; remittances by public chari- table agencies; salaries and fees of foreign personnel working under contract in Argentina; expenses for par- ticipation in international fairs; and premiums for insurance on imports and exports and on other goods, under contracts with local insurance companies. November 17. Telephone Communication No. 2446 permitted exchange transactions for the following: fam i ly remittances; technical services; expenses of busi- ness representatives abroad; expenses of commercial advertising; royalties; and business commissions on imports and exports. The Communication also provided that, for remittances of profits, evidence of being cur- rent with respect to tax and social security obligations could be provided in the form of a declaration issued by a national chartered public accountant. November 30. Telephone Communication No. 2449 permitted authorized banks to sell foreign exchange for repayment (up to five days before maturity) of foreign loans whose proceeds had been sold in the exchange market or that had been used abroad, pro- vided that the existence of the debt could be certified by a national chartered public accountant; expenses of medical treatment abroad; payments by travel firms and travel agencies for services abroad; use of credit cards abroad; income from securities and other assets of holders abroad; transfer of bank balances held by banks and firms abroad and resulting from the sale of foreign currency in the exchange market; and adjust- ments for reduced f.o.b. value of exports. December 2. Telephone Communication No. 2450 permitted the full resumption of exchange transactions by authorized banks in accordance with the general rules in force on October 14, 1970, with the following exceptions: Sales of exchange in connection with investments, placements, or deposits, whether within Argentina or abroad, required the prior approval of the Central Bank, which was granted restrictively. More- over, the provisions governing remittances abroad of profits and dividends and loan repayments (Communi- cations Nos. 2435, 2446, and 2449) and those related to travel abroad (Communication No. 2440) continued in effect. (The exchange houses and exchange agencies were not reopened until January 25, 1971.) December 4. Decrees Nos. 2524 and 2525 estab- lished new import duties of 200 per cent on 160 tariff items (including foodstuffs, wines and spirits, cigarettes, leather goods, and textiles) and rescinded the import duty concessions established by Decrees Nos. 28, 38, 39, and 47. In addition, import duties on certain items previously subject to rates of duty of 35-110 per cent were made subject to rates of 50-140 per cent. Items ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution subject to import duties of up to 25 per cent were not a f fec ted. The measure was to be effective for a period of 120 days, pend ing the preparation of a new customs t a r if f- December 29. Law No. 18875 and its implementing Decree No. 2930 established cer ta in provisions govern- ing purchases by state agencies, state enterprises, and enterprises with government majority participation, gu id ing their purchases toward local industry, December 31. The rate of income tax on profits, when reinvested in Argentine firms producing capital goods, was reduced by up to 6 per cent. The withholding tax on dividends remitted abroad was maintained at 12 per cent, except for stock dividends. ARGENTINA 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Dollar or $A 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: $ A 2.1429 buying, and $ A 2.1514 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1970 was US$1.1175 buying, and US$1.1109 selling, per $A 1. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks for periods appropriate to the nature of the transaction in respect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions and transac t ions in invisibles of a noncapital nature. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licen- sing is adm in is tered by the Department of Trade and Indus try and the Depar tment of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Aus t ra l ia is a member of the Sterling Area, and set- t lemen ts between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area coun tr ies may be made in sterling, in ano ther Sterling Area currency, or in Australian cur- rency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Aus- tra l ia. Payments for impor ts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an Ex ternal Account in the United Kingdom, in Austra- lian currency th rough the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Pro- ceeds f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling f rom an External Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, in Australian cur- rency f rom an appropr ia te nonresident account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to approval, which 1 The mone ta ry area of Australia includes Papua and New Guinea. 34 is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of resi- dence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Under current policy, the balance on an account held by a nonresi- dent of the Sterling Area may be withdrawn in con- vertible currency. There are no blocked accounts con- taining funds ineligible for remittance overseas. Residents of Nauru, including those temporarily in Australia, may hold Nauru Accounts. Transfers from N au ru Accounts may be made for any purpose, includ- ing remittance overseas. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports, pro- vided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Import licenses are required for unw rough t, waste, and scrap aluminum and aluminum alloy (o ther than waste and scrap which is the produce of and shipped direct from New Zealand); used, sec- ondhand, or disposals machinery or equipment and parts therefor (earthmoving or excavating vehicles, machinery or equipment; tractors, road rollers, or materials handling equipment); other vehicles (used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles, excluding pub- lic-service type passenger vehicles); and specified knit- ted garments (except when of New Zealand origin and shipped direct from that coun try). The licensing of the knitted goods is a temporary measure applied while the Tariff Board conducts inquiries into the needs of the local industries affected. In addition, import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, mainly for reasons of health, morals, or security, or to maintain quality standards. In accordance with Resolu- tions of December 16, 1966 and May 29, 1968 of the UN Security Council, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of transfers to specified bodies in Viet-Nam and remittances to Rhodesia (except in certain circumstances), they are not restricted; the control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers, although there are some restrictions maintained for security reasons. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; addi- tional amounts may be obtained on application, pro- vided that the exchange control is satisfied that the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange is to be u sed f or b o na f ide t r a v el expenses and not f or an u n a u t h o r i z ed c a p i t al t ran s fe r. L i m i ts are p laced on r em i t t an c es f or f am i ly m a i n t e n a n ce a nd g i f t s; howeve r, a p p l i c a t i o ns f or s u ch t rans fe rs are t rea ted l i b­ e r a l l y, a nd am o u n ts b e y o nd the n o r m al l i m it f or f a m i ly m a in t en an ce are a p p r o v ed on a p p l i c a t i o n. T r a v e l e rs w ho are not res iden ts of A u s t r a l ia m ay t ake out a ny amount in f o r e i gn or d om e s t ic b ankno t es w i t h in 6 mon ths of en t ry, p r o v i d ed that they b r o u g ht the notes in to A u s t r a l i a. O t h er t rave le rs m ay take out up to $A 100 in A u s t r a l i an c u r r e n c y, w i t h o ut s p e c i al a u t h o r i­ z a t i o n; of th is am o u n t, up to $A 4 m ay be in c o i n s. Exports and Export Proceeds T he e x p o rt of a ll c omm o d i t i e s, un less sp e c i f i c a l ly exemp ted, r e q u i r es an e x p o rt l icen se in te rms of the B a n k i ng ( F o r e i gn E x c h a n g e) R e g u l a t i o n s, to ensu re that the f u ll p roceeds are r e c e i v ed in a c u r r e n cy a nd w i t h in a p e r i od a p p r o v ed by the R e s e r ve B a n k. To assist s u p e r v i s i o n, the re is a fu r th er c o n d i t i on that a ll sh ipp ing d o c um e n t s, b i l ls of l a d i n g, e tc ., m u st be d r a wn to the o r d er of a nd d e l i v e r ed to the R e s e rve B a nk or a t rad ing b a nk a c t i ng as i ts agent. T he C u s t oms ( P r o h i b­ ited E x p o r t s) R e g u l a t i o ns p r o h i b it the e x p o rt of sp e c i­ fied goods e i ther ab s o l u t e ly or sub ject to p r e s c r i b ed cond i t ion s. T he c o n t r o ls h ave been e s tab l i shed f or the f o l l ow i ng p u r p o s e s: to ensu re adequa te supp l i es to meet A u s t r a l i a 's d om e s t ic r equ i r em en ts (e. g ., c o p p er and c o p p er s c r ap, s ta in less steel s c r ap, a nd n a t u r al g a s ), to ensure adequa te p r i c e s, to en cou r age the e s t ab l i sh­ ment of p r o c e s s i ng f a c i l i t i es (e .g ., i r on o re a nd w o od c h i p s ), a nd to assist the o r d e r ly m a r k e t i ng of p r i m a ry p roduc ts. E x p o r ts to R h o d e s ia are p r o h i b i t ed in a c c o r d­ ance w i th the UN R e s o l u t i o n s. To a v o id the im p o s i t i on of im p o rt quo tas on beef a nd m u t t on by the U n i t ed States, re s t ra in ts are a p p l i ed to expo r ts of beef a nd mu t ton to that m a r k e t. Proceeds from Invisibles P roceeds f r om i n v i s i b l es r e c e i v ed in S t e r l i ng A r ea cu r renc ies m ay be d i s po s ed of f r e e ly. P r o c e e ds f r om inv is ib les in o t h er c u r r e n c i es do n ot h ave to be su r r en­ dered, but m ay be d i spo s ed of o n ly w i th p e rm i s s i o n. T rave le rs m ay b r i ng in a ny am o u nt in f o r e i gn or domestic b a n k n o t e s. Capital A ll t rans fe rs of c a p i t al f r om A u s t r a l ia r e q u i re app rova l. T r a n s f e rs a b r o ad of r e s id ent c a p i t al n o r m a l ly are a l l ow ed o n ly f or c e r t a in types of d i r e ct inv e s tm ent overseas. A p p r o v al is n o rm a l ly g r an t ed f or the r e p a t r i a­ t ion of c a p i t al by non re s iden t s, b ut no adv an ce c o m­ mitments are g i v e n. No r e s t r i c t ions are p l a c ed on the r e c e ipt of c a p i t al A U S T R A L IA funds f r om a b r o a d, but res iden ts mu st o b t a in p r i or a p p r o v al be fo re b o r r o w i ng f o r e i gn c u r r e n c y, i n c l u d i ng S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c y, or i n c u r r i ng a l i a b i l i ty to a r e s i­ dent of a c o u n t ry ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r e a. U n d er the G o v e r nm e n t 's gu id e l in es p o l i c y, a ll en ter­ p r ises in w h i ch m o re t h an 25 p er cent of the e q u i ty is h e ld d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly by ove rseas in teres ts are reques ted to c o n s u lt the R e s e rve B a nk in respect of p ropo s a ls to b o r r ow in A u s t r a l i a. T he gu id e l in es p r o­ v i de f or rea sonab le access to A u s t r a l i an b o r r ow i n gs f or financing n o rm al r equ i r em en ts of funds f or w o r k i ng c a p i t al a nd f or a p p r o v al to be r e a d i ly g i v en to b o r r o w­ ings to finance e x p o rt t r an s a c t ion s. T he am o u nt of l o c al b o r r ow i n gs to finance c a p i t al inve s tment p e rm i t t ed under the gu id e l in es depends p r i m a r i ly on the am o u nt of overseas funds inve s ted in the en te rp r i se a nd the share of the e q u i ty in the c om p a ny h e ld by A u s t r a­ l i a n s. F o r e i gn secu r i t ies ow n ed by A u s t r a l i an re s iden ts need not be su r r end e r ed. T he e x p o rt of secu r i t ies a nd p r a c t i c a l ly a ll t ran sac t ions in f o r e i gn secu r i t ies are sub­ ject to a p p r o v a l. F u n ds inv e s t ed by res iden ts of c o u n­ t r ies ou t s ide the S t e r l i ng A r ea in secu r i t ies q u o t ed on an A u s t r a l i an s to ck exchange c an be r e p a t r i a t ed u n d er c u r r e nt p o l i cy in n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n cy at o f f i c i al m a r k et rates of ex ch ang e. Re s iden ts of A u s t r a l ia are p e rm i t t ed to s e ll in the inv e s tm ent c u r r e n cy m a r k et in the U n i t ed K i n g d om rece ip ts in n o n - S t e r l i ng A r ea c u r r e n c i es that u n d er the U . K. r egu l a t ions are e l i g i b le f or d i s p o s al in that m a r k e t. Gold R e s id en ts mu st su r r end er to the R e s e rve B a nk of A u s t r a l ia a ll g o ld c o m i ng i n to t h e ir possess ion w i th the e x c e p t i on of g o ld c o i ns the g o ld con tent v a l ue of w h i ch does not ex c e ed $A 50 a nd g o ld l a w f u l ly a c q u i r ed f or use in a p r o f e s s i on or t rade. N e w ly m i n ed g o ld a c q u i r ed by the R e s e rve B a nk is m a de a v a i l a b le at i ts o f f ic ial b u y i ng p r i ce of $A 31 .25 a fine o u n ce to an a s so c i a t ion of g o ld p r o d u c e rs f or sale at free m a r k et p r i c es to l o c al i n d u s t r i al users or overseas pu r ch a s e r s. C e r t a in d om e s t ic g o ld p r o d u c t i on is s u b s i d i z ed u n d er the G o l d - M i n i ng I n d u s t ry A s s i s t a n ce A c t, 1954—70. Im p o r ts of g o ld are not r e s t r i c t ed b ut im p o r t ed g o ld becomes subject to d e l i v e ry to the R e s e r ve B a n k. E x p o r ts of g o ld r e q u i re the a p p r o v al of the R e s e rve B a n k. G o ld j ew e l ry is not subject to a c q u i s i t i on by the R e s e r ve B a nk a nd im p o r ts of s u ch i tems are u n r e­ s t r i c t ed. E x p o r ts of g o ld j ew e l ry e x c e e d i ng $A 2 50 in v a lue r e q u i re the issue of an e x p o rt l i c e n s e. T r a v e l e rs r e q u i re an e x p o rt l icen se if t a k i ng out of A u s t r a l ia ce r­ t a in spec i f ied goods, i n c l u d i ng g o ld j ew e l r y, in excess of a t o t al v a l ue of $A 10 ,000 or w h en the g o ld con t ent v a l ue of any one a r t i c le exceeds $A 1,000. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Changes during 1970 January L Additional items were added to the list of imports from New Zealand attracting preferential rates of duty. A further extension of the list took effect from July 1. February 26. Banks were informed that Nauru was regarded as a de facto member of the Sterling Area for purposes of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regula- tions and that residents of Nau ru could open Nauru Accounts. March 5. It was announced that reciprocal trade proposals between the Australian and New Zealand motor industries would be eligible for new concessions (waiver of import duty in both countries or acceptance of components in approved arrangements as "local con- tent"). March 6. The values beyond which the export by travelers of specified articles (including gold jewelry) requires an export license were raised from $A 250 to $A 1,000 for the gold content of any one article and from $A 2,000 to $A 10,000 for the total value of the articles. March 12. A further extension took place of the range of goods from specified developing countries per- mitted to enter Australia at preferential rates of duty. The list was again extended on September 17 and, at the same time, a number of additional handicraft items from these countries were granted duty-free admission without quota limitation. July 31. Banks were authorized to determine their own rates of exchange for transactions in sterling notes and coin. The Reserve Bank ceased to quote rates at which it would purchase sterling notes and silver coin from other banks. November 2. With effect from July 1, the Gold- Mining Industry Assistance Act was extended without amendment for a further three years. 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0341796 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling or S 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U. S. dollar are S 25.80 buying, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Austria and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par with the U. S. dollar. Effective costs may deviate in switch transactions. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments arrangements x are made through clearing accounts expressed in U. S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. *On May 9, 1971 the par value of the Austrian schilling was changed to 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Austrian schilling, or S24.75 per U .S. dollar. 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. However, settlements with the U. S. S. R. took place in convertible currencies from January 1, 1971, and the payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland are due to expire at the end of 1971. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold, gold coins, or converti- ble currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which require individual licenses. Balances may be freely converted into any for- eign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of coun- tries with which Austria makes settlements in converti- ble currencies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely represent funds due to residents of countries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Ac- counts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quan- titative restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries from which they are imported; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the cus- toms at the time of clearance.2 Nearly all imports from European OECD countries, their associated terri- tories, and many other countries3 are liberalized. 2 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 3 The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afri- can Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of the Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (includ- ing Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Imports f rom Canada and the United States and its ter- ritories are liberalized to the same degree as those from the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quantitative restriction when imported f rom Canada or the United States. Imports f rom three other countries 4 are treated in practically the same way as imports from European OECD coun- tries. Many nonagricultural imports are admitted under an au toma t ic licensing procedure when originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, or Ruman ia; in practice, this is true also when they originate in the U. S. S. R. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under vari- ous procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensa- tion ( b a r t e r ). State t rad ing covers tobacco in any form, salt, spir- its, and various b reads tu f fs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified, imports f rom OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, and Japan. Discretionary ind iv idual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such a r rangemen ts is negligible. Gra ins and other specified goods are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regu- lations ma in ta ined under so-called Agricultural Market- ing Laws. In addition to grains, the fo l low ing groups of products are covered by Marke t ing Laws: milk and bu t te r; ca t t le, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products f rom these animals for human consumption; and cer- ta in fer t i l izers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a m ax imum of 20 per cent of the co r respond ing global quota. Import licenses are not transferab le and are valid for six mon ths, but this period may be extended. Paymen ts for imports f rom, and originating in, coun- tries w i th wh ich Aus tr ia makes settlements in converti- ble currencies do not require exchange licenses.5 Pay- ments for imports from, or originating in, countries with which Austria ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements requ ire exchange licenses, which are granted w i thout 4 India, Israel, and Pakistan. 5 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for payment; in such cases, the nec- essary exchange license is issued at the same time. 38 restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with resi- dents of countries with which Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies. Exceptions comprise transactions concerning transport,6 films, and insur- ance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral pay- ments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight payments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to resi- dents of Gauntries with which. .Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Payments up to S 1,000 to such countries may be made freely, at any time, and without indication of purpose; payments up to S 1,000 to clearing countries may be made with- out a special license if they relate to imports or speci- fied services. All other payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require special licen- ses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transporta- tion. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation arrange- ments are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of rele- vant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. 6 Early in 1971, Austria withdrew its OECD reservation in respect of in land w a t e rw ay fre igh ts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export claims must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments. Deposits in bilateral clearing currencies may be used in accordance w i th the terms of an ind iv idual payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account w i th an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are generally per- mitted, if made with convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances. For investments financed in other ways (imported Austrian currency, inconvertible currencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are freely permitted to obtain from non- residents loans and credits as follows: (1) commercial credits for a period of up to one year; (2) loans with maturities of five years or more, to be used for invest- ment purposes (e.g., for expansion of production equ ipmen t ); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Austria in which the nonresidents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and (5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite mer- chandise transactions. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities in convertible currencies of authorized banks are in practice not subject to limitation. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept from abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. The Austrian National Bank permits the transfer abroad of ( 1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The t ran s fer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enter- prises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing AUSTRIA f rom such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is in tended for the personal use of the buyer within one y e a r ), to grant commercial or investment credits, and to g rant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude w i th nonresidents life insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in con- vertible currencies. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities quoted on stock exchanges 7 and Aus tr ian securities; for foreign securi- ties and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Aus tr ian external bonds), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to residents of countries with which Austria makes set- tlements in convertible currencies may be made in those currencies, whereas payments to residents of countries w i th which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Residents may sell securities deposited in accordance with the aforementioned provision with Austrian authorized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and through authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Austrian National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of gen- eral permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial institu- tions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on their customers' behalf; the prices are based on 7 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a participating na ture in whatever legal fo rm (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment f u n ds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk-spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA those for coins and unmanu fac tu red gold in free mar- kets abroad. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fur thermore, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition f rom residents of gold subject to the For- eign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are per- mitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any fo rm. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is either issued by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Indus t ry, which usually grants any license applied for by industrial users, or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for cer- tain gold imports within its competence. Where this law does not require an import license for imports (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued af ter consideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jew- elry require au tho r iza t ion by the National Bank. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licen- ses being issued automatically by the customs; commer- cial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1970 In addition to the measures listed below, further imports f rom specified Eastern European countries were liberalized du r ing the year and many of the remaining import quotas for Eastern European countries were increased. January 1. Imports from Poland of 157 items were liberalized. February 16. The National Bank informed the credit institutions that it would again authorize purchases (restricted on September 18, 1969) by residents, on recognized fore ign stock exchanges, of listed securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na ture issued by foreign investment funds or similar institutions. February 19. The National Bank suspended its quo- 40 tation for Italian banknotes. The quotation was resumed on February 26. June 18. The ceiling for export credit guarantees was raised from S 15 billion to S 25 billion. June 24. It was announced that the temporary price-containment measures introduced on Novem- ber 15, 1969 and December 1, 1969, most of which were to expire on June 30, 1970, would be continued during the second half of 1970. These measures had included the lowering of customs duties on some 70 tariff items, the reduction or elimination of import equalization levies on 7 tariff items, as well as more liberal licensing of specified durable consumer goods from Japan and certain Eastern European countries and the liberaliza- tion of certain Japanese items previously subject to quota. In addition to these measures, the following were to take effect from July 1, 1971: import duty reductions on another 40 tariff items and abolition of import equalization tax on 9 tariff items. Further increases in import quotas, particularly for Japanese commodities, also were announced. June 26. The number of commodities subject to quota when of Japanese origin, which was last reduced on November 15, 1969 from 181 to 95, was further reduced to 80, with effect from July 1. August 6. A new trade and payments agreement was signed with the U. S. S. R. The bilateral payments agreement would be terminated and settlements would take place in convertible currencies from January 1, 1971. Mutual trade would no longer be subject to agreed quotas. September 15. A new trade and payments agreement was signed with Poland which provided for settlements in convertible currencies beginning January 1, 1972. October 1. Antidumping ordinances covering plain woolen fabrics made of blended yarn, certain cotton yarns, and two other items were withdrawn. The only such ordinances which remained in effect covered cer- tain printed cotton fabrics and certain garments; these would expire on March 31, 1971. October 8. A new trade and payments agreement was signed with Bulgaria which provided for settle- ments in convertible currencies beginning January 1, 1972. November 20. A new trade and payments agreement was signed with Czechoslovakia which provided for set- tlements in convertible currencies beginning January 1, 1972. November 27. The tax law passed on this date pro- vided that the 10 per cent purchase tax on automobiles and trucks would be abolished with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1971. November 30. It was announced that the temporary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution reductions in customs duties and import equalization levies would be extended until June 30, 1971 and that from Janua ry 1, 1971 they would be expanded to cover a total of 220 tariff items. December 23. The trade agreement with Japan was extended; the agreed list of Japanese goods sub jec t^ to quota in Austria was reduced to 62 items with effect from Janua ry 1, 1971. AUSTRIA 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency BARBADOS' No par value has been agreed with the Fund. Barba- dos is a participant in the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, which established the East Carib- bean Currency Authority to issue and manage a common currency in its member countries.2 The Cur- rency Authority maintains a fixed relationship for the East Caribbean dollar with sterling at the rate of EC$4.80 = <£!, corresponding to EC$2 = US$1. The East Caribbean dollar is freely convertible into sterling at that rate, subject to banking commissions. The East Caribbean Currency Authority is author- ized to levy a commission charge of up to 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling. On December 31, 1970 the commission charges in transac- tions with authorized banks were %e of 1 per cent on inward transfers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The authorized banks apply the same com- mission charges in dealings in sterling with their cus- tomers, although they may levy an additional charge on mail transfers and drafts. The East Caribbean Currency Authority maintains fixed buying and selling rates at l/s of 1 per cent either side of parity for the Guyana dollar, the Jamaica dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. The authorized banks apply commission charges for these currencies of %e of 1 per cent, buying and sell- ing. Exchange rates for convertible non-Sterling Area currencies are based on the daily buying and selling rates in the London market. Under an arrangement with the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, the East Caribbean Currency Authority purchases at par notes and coins issued by the monetary authorities of the countries concerned and repatriates the currency in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of East Caribbean dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, operating as the Exchange Control Authority, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an author- ized dealer. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Barbados is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with resi- dents of other parts of the Sterling A rea3 may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any non- Sterling Area currency or by crediting an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Receipts from resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be received to the debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other Sterling Area countries may main- tain accounts in East Caribbean dollars in Barbados and no distinction is made between these accounts and accounts maintained in East Caribbean dollars by resi- dents of Barbados. With the permission of the Exchange Control Authority, authorized banks may maintain Foreign Currency Accounts and External Accounts in the names of residents of non-Sterling Area countries. Resi- dents of the Sterling Area may also hold Foreign Cur- rency Accounts. Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are maintained in non-Sterling Area currencies, is given on the basis of the anticipated fre- quency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, subject to the conditions of approval at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area and are maintained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies or gold and with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts. Other credits require individual approval. They may be debited for payments to other residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and, in some cases, for the purchase of non- Sterling Area currencies. Other debits require indi- vidual approval. The Exchange Control Act, 1967 empowers the Exchange Control Authority to require certain pay- ments in favor of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area which are ineligible for transfer to be 1 Barbados became a member of the International Monetary Fund on December 29, 1970. 2 Other participating governments are Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent. 3 The Exchange Control Act, 1967 defines the Sterling Area as excluding South Africa. Foreign currencies comprise all non-Sterling Area currencies. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credited to Blocked Accounts. Amounts standing to the credit of Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. However, in view of the United Kingdom's decision in 1967 to dispense with Blocked Accounts, these provisions of the act have not been invoked. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and imports originating in mainland China, the CMEA countries, North Korea, Japan, and Portu- gal require individual licenses. Imports from Japan are kept under review in order to prevent a widening of the trade imbalance with that country and to protect certain local industries. Certain imports are prohibited or are subject to discretionary licensing irrespective of origin. These include goods which compete with domestic products, such as milk, live poultry, sugar, beverages, and certain items of clothing. Special licens- ing arrangements apply to goods originating in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association, of which Barbados is a member. Imports affected by these requirements include pork, eggs, fruits, vegetables, and nuts, all of which are licensed to conform with the terms of the protocol laying down the agricultural mar- keting arrangements for the Caribbean Free Trade Agreement. Individual licenses are required for imports of commodities subject to international commodity agreements, including wheat, rice (which is imported only from Guyana in terms of the Barbados-Guyana Rice Agreement), and commodities subject to the pro- visions of the Oil and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Guyana, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago, and Do- minica. All imports not referred to previously are on open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (relevant invoices or customs warrants) to authorized dealers. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating in countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. Authority has been delegated to author- ized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature. BARBADOS These include foreign travel, for which up to EC$ 1,000 a person may be allocated for each travel year, expen- ses of education abroad (EC$2,500 a person a year), and subscriptions to newspapers, magazines, etc. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. Residents of Barbados and other Sterling Area coun- tries may take out unlimited amounts in travelers checks denominated in East Caribbean dollars or other Sterling Area currencies for encashment only in Ster- ling Area countries. Residents may take out notes and coins up to the value of EC$100 in the currencies of Sterling Area countries and EC$ 1,000 in the currencies of non-Sterling Area countries. Residents of non- Sterling Area countries may take out any notes and coins which they brought into Barbados. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and licenses are required for the export of goods to mainland China, the CMEA countries, North Korea, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any coun- try; these goods include rice, sugar, and turtle shells. Certain goods, including rum, molasses, and confection- ery, require licenses when exported to non-Sterling Area countries, and licenses are also required for the export of specified goods to any country that is not a member of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. These goods include coconuts and coconut oil, lard, and margarine. All other goods may be exported with- out license. Exports are supervised by the Exchange Control Authority to ensure that proceeds in non- Sterling Area currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be retained but those obtained in non- Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars, other Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area curren- cies. Resident travelers are required to sell their hold- ings of non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to other parts of the Sterling Area by residents of Barbados, 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS and residents of other Sterling Area countries may invest freely in Barbados. Direct investments in non-Sterling Area countries by residents of Barbados require exchange control approval; when permission is granted, such investments must be channeled through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. The purchase by resi- dents of Barbados of non-Sterling Area securities and of real estate for private purposes in non-Sterling Area countries is not normally permitted. When permission is granted, however, the purchase must be financed through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Certificates of title to non-Sterling Area securities held by residents of Barbados must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers such as inheritances to resi- dents of non-Sterling Area countries require exchange control approval, which is granted subject to the pay- ment of estate and succession duties. Dowries in the form of settlements, and cash gifts up to EC$500 a year may be transferred, with exchange control approval, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Direct investment in Barbados by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remitted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment, and to the registration of the original investment with the Exchange Control Authority. The issuance and transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area of securities registered in Bar- bados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of non-Sterling Area currency is brought in for their pur- chase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from non-Sterling Area cur- rency sources. Residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area may acquire in Barbados real estate for pri- vate purposes with funds from non-Sterling Area currency sources or a combination of local and non- Sterling Area currency sources. Proceeds from the real- ization of such investments equivalent to the amount of non-Sterling Area currency brought in may be repa- triated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of inter- est on the original foreign investment, calculated at the following rates: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of EC$24,000 a year. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are exempted from customs duties, charges, and other taxes. Licenses to import and export gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Official institutions in Barbados do not purchase gold. Changes during 1970 January 1. British Caribbean Currency Board coins became the liability of the East Caribbean Currency Authority, which took over the assets and liabilities of the Coin Continuation Board as prescribed in the Brit- ish Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1964. February 2. The arrangement whereby the East Car- ibbean Currency Authority and the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago returned to each other the collection of each other's notes and coins was extended to include the buying and selling of each other's currency through bank transfers. March 1. The amount of foreign exchange which could be provided for the transfer of cash gifts to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area was increased from EC$240 to EC$500. March 1. The amount of foreign exchange which could be provided by authorized dealers for travel out- side the Sterling Area was raised from EC$850 to EC$ 1,000 a person a year. March 1. The value of Sterling Area notes and coins permitted to be exported by travelers was increased from EC$72 to EC$100. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG * Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc or BF 50.00 = US$1 and Lux F 50.00 = US$1. There are two spot exchange markets —the official (reglemente or regulated) and the free. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1. The rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other cur- rency concerned; the rate of the Congo zai're fluctuates between limits of 1 per cent either side of BF 100, i.e., between BF 99.25 buying, and BF 100.75 selling, per Z 1. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. For all outward payments in excess of BF 10 million through that market, supporting docu- ments must be submitted to the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange market, all currencies (includ- ing banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluc- tuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired through the free market may be sold in the official market, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On December 31, 1970, the free market rates between banks for the U. S. dollar were BF 49.69 buy- ing, and BF 49.71 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange markets may be used for settlements with so-called convertible area countries, which include all countries except those in the bilateral group.2 If receipts from bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies (other than the zai're), they are to be ceded on the official market. * With effect from May 11, 1971, the official exchange market and the free market were separated completely. Residents of Belgium and Luxembourg, including authorized banks, no longer were permitted to sell in the official market or credit to "regulated" accounts any for- eign currency acquired in the free market or held as "free" balances. Consequently, foreign currencies, which previously could not go to a discount in the free market, henceforth could go to a discount as well as a premium in that market. 1The currencies dealt with in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. A l though the Congo zai're is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zai're in settlements with countries other than the Democratic Republic of Congo, nor the exchange of the zai're for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. 2 The bilateral group countries are Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and U. S. S. R. In the off ic ial ma rke t, au thor ized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with non res iden ts in any of the convertible currencies; however, there are special regulations for the zai're. Nonbank residents may not acquire convertible curren- cies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward pur- chases of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that the currencies thus acquired are used for the settlement of obligations w i th in five working days from delivery; exchange not used w i th in that period must be resold in the official market. Any resident or nonresident, banks included, may deal freely in any currency in the free market. Exchange rates in the forward market are in principle left to the interplay of market forces. Belgium and Luxembou rg accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg ( the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion —BLEU); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Ins t i tu te. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of January 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Administra- tive Comm iss ion . the authority to license trade transac- tions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate ma in ly to ensure that sett lements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appro- priate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appro- priate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 2) and the convertible area (a ll o ther coun t r ie s ). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus tr ial expenses (e.g., costs of p rocess ing ), and other commerc ial expenses inc lud ing insu rance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, operating prof- its, repa tr ia t ion of cer ta in foreign long-term invest- ments, and t rans fe rs by emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, fam i ly ma in tenance paymen ts, capital inves tmen ts, l iqu ida t ion of investments, dealings in gold, t ran s fe rs by em ig ran ts of Belgian or Luxembourg na t iona l i ty, t r an s f e rs by imm igran ts, inheritances, forward covering of merchan- dise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for fore ign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. In dealing w i th countries in the convertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible currencies received from transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs can also be set- tled th rough a Financial or a Convertible Account. All paymen ts to coun tr ies in the convertible area, and all receipts from such countries for transactions included in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow t rans fe rs through the official market for some of the t ran sac t ions mentioned in List D. These cover e s sen t ia l ly direct inves tment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f ranc accounts of nonresi- d en ts are classified as fo l lows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official m a rk e t, and these accoun ts may be opened in the name of any non re s iden t .4 They are not related to any coun- try or mone ta ry area. They may be used for settle- men ts wh ich e i ther must or may be made through the o f f ic ial m a rk e t, and may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible curren- cies in the o f f ic ial ma rket to au thor ized banks in Bel- g ium -Luxembou rg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be t ran s fe r red freely to any nonresident account or be converted in to any currency in the official or the f ree ma rke t. Ma il c red i ts on Convertible Accounts are subject to ceilings set by the IBLC; other advances are sub ject to au tho r i z a t ion. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area coun- tries,5 and they are not related to any coun try or mone- tary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market, and may be c red i ted w i th proceeds f rom the sale by a nonres ident of gold or any currency in the f ree market and of convertible currencies in the official market. Domestic bankno tes and proceeds f rom the sale in the SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY Outward Payments EXCHANGE MARKET A, B, and C Convertible D A, B, C, and D Convertible Bilateral Any Any A and B C and D Convertible Convertible A, B, C, and D Bilateral Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Convertible Official or free Free Official Official or free Free Official NONRES IDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Any Financial Bilateral 3 Convertible | Convertible £ or Financial Convertible or Bilateral 3 3 Bilateral Account of the coun try concerned. Settlements w i th the Democratic Republic of Congo may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zaires held with banks in Congo. 4 Including civil servants of foreign nationality who are employed in the BLEU by specified international organizations. 5 Individuals resident in Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, or Rwanda are authorized to maintain "assimilated" resident accounts. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — free market of foreign banknotes deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium-Lux- embourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Finan- cial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible curren- cies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the conver- sion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam,6 (2) a number of imports from all other countries except Luxembourg.7 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricul- tural products and foodstuffs, and coal and kerosene. All other commodities, which constitute about four fifths of total imports, are free of license and quantita- tive restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to indi- vidual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The author- licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodi- ties when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U. S. S. R. 7 Most imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EEC countries. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permis- sion. Prior examination of supporting documen ts by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 10 mil- lion, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or af ter the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac- tions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Ac- count. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank; for payments exceed- ing BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases prior examination of the supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for all invisibles ( inc lud ing those in List D) may be made th rough the free marke t, by crediting Belgian or Lux- embourg francs to a Financial Account, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the coun try concerned; however, special regulations apply to settlements with the Democratic Republic of Congo. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to Albania, Bulgaria, main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam and (2) specified ex- ports to all other countries except Luxembourg.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notification of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The author- ized bank is required to make sure that export pro- ceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Spe- cial authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. 8 Most exports in the last group do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for cur- rent payments authorized to be made in these curren- cies. Payments for exports to bilateral countries may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for exportation; proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B —see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t ), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in For- eign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible cur- rencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D from convertible area countries may also be col- lected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial charac- ter, may also be made through the official market, sub- ject to individual license. In addition, incoming capital may be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange con- trol authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxem- bourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned 48 by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts; outward payments for capital trans- actions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts, or in the case of the Democratic Republic of Congo, in zai'res. The external position of authorized banks is subject to ceilings (1) on the net long spot position in foreign currencies relating to the official market and (2) on mail credits on Convertible Accounts.9 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settle- ments in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries may be made through the free market, through financial accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No cus- toms duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except on imports for industrial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who are authorized to make payment through the official market.10 Changes during 1970 During the year, certain exchange control formalities and procedures were eased. On various occasions addi- tional imports were liberalized bilaterally when originat- ing in specified Eastern European countries. January 1. The tax refunds granted in Belgium on certain exports were reduced by one percentage point, and the level of export tax exemptions was decreased by 0.5 per cent of the value of the exported goods. January 12. A value-added tax was introduced in Luxembourg. The general rate was 8 per cent and the reduced rate 4 per cent. 9 On March 24, 1971 banks were requested to moderate their for- eign exchange operations in such a way that their net short spot posi- tion would not deteriorate. 10 Transactions in monetary gold, i.e., coins and bars, are exempt from the value-added tax introduced in Belgium on January 1, 1971. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 16. The resources of Creditexport were raised from BF 15 billion to BF 18 billion. On December 22 they were further increased to BF 21 billion. March 26. The credit ceilings for end-March and end- June 1970, which had become inoperative owing to a marked contraction in demand for short-term bank credit, were abolished. New credit ceilings were set for end-September and these no longer covered the used amount of outstanding credits granted through Credit- export. Export credits extended through Creditexport with a maturity of more than one year and less than two years were excluded from the ceiling on redis- counts w i th the National Bank of Belgium. The banks' visa and rediscount line at the central bank was to be reduced by September 30, in two stages, to 9 per cent of their average domestic currency assets. May 1. Luxembourg liberalized imports of all com- modities listed in the annex to the GATT waiver deci- sion of 1955 covering Luxembourg's agricultural and horticultural import restrictions. May 20. The October 1, 1969 ceiling on advances (in practice mail credits) granted by authorized banks on Convertible Accounts was raised and made equal to the ceiling on their spot balances in official market cur- rencies. June 1. The National Bank no longer gave its visa to bills representing exports payable w i th in 120 days to EEC countries, but only its certification (which does not constitute a formal commitment to rediscount bills). The certification was made optional, as an alter- native to the visa, for other exports in two stages, on June 10 and August 17. From August 17, only exports financed at med ium term by Creditexport (irrespective of country of destination) did not have this option, these being subject to visa in all cases. June 23. The measure of August 7, 1969, which had required exchange control approval by the IBLC for import payments made more than one month in advance of importation was revoked, and such pay- ments could again be made freely up to three months before importation. July 1. The formalities for payments of expenses related to imports, exports, and transit trade were sim- plified. July 31. A Royal Decree of July 20 was published which established the rates at which the value-added tax to be introduced in Belgium would be applied to different commodities. The value-added tax came into force on January 1, 1971. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG November 16. The Congo zai're was added to the list of currencies that are officially quoted on the Brussels Bourse. Settlements with the Democratic Republic of Congo could henceforth be made either, as previously, through Bilateral Accounts in Belgium or through Con- vertible Accounts in zai'res in Congo. November 16. Authorized banks were granted a gen- eral license to effect specified transactions in zai'res. They could freely purchase zai'res: (1) from residents of Congo, against Belgian or Luxembourg francs to be credited to a foreign account classified as "bilateral- Congo" or to an "assimilated" resident account; (2) from residents of Belgium or Luxembourg who had received the zai'res from a debtor resident in Congo, subject to submission of appropriate documentation concerning the nature of the underlying transactions; and (3) from other authorized banks. Banks could freely use the zai'res thus acquired for the following purposes: (1) sales to residents of Congo for Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a foreign account classified as "bilateral-Congo" or of a Convertible Account; (2) payments for the account of residents of Belgium or Luxembourg to residents of Congo, subject to compliance with standard formalities for import and transit trade transactions or otherwise subject to presen- tation in writing of indications as to the nature of the underlying transaction; and (3) sales to other author- ized banks. The existing regulations concerning settle- ments with Congo remained in effect. November 26. Belgium ratified the agreement signed on April 29, 1969 with Luxembourg and the Nether- lands concerning the unification of the Benelux customs territory. Luxembourg ratified on December 28. The agreement came into force on February 1, 1971. December 18. By virtue of a Royal Decree of November 6, a large number of the remaining import and export licensing requirements were abolished in trade with the Netherlands. (Some further simplification of formalities in intra-Benelux trade took place on February 1, 1971.) December 30. A law was enacted which amended the charter of the Office National du Ducroire and enabled it to cover the political and transfer risk of certain new Belgian investments abroad. (A Royal Decree implementing the law was issued on February 8, 1971.) December 31. A law of December 23 and a Royal Decree of December 24 were published which provided for the introduction on January 1, 1971 of a temporary export tax. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par value for the Boliviano was established by Bolivia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was established by virtue of Supreme Decree No. 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transac- tions are carried out in a free market, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since January 1959. On Janua ry 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bo l iv ian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buy ing fore ign exchange f rom the Governmen t, the official enter- prises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), and p r iva te export firms, and selling fore ign exchange to the Bank ing Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the Government and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Mone tary Department of the Central Bank on December 31, 1970 was $b 11.875 buying, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency Ce r ta in se t t lemen ts w i th Hungary and Poland are channeled through special accounts. Otherwise, there are no prescr ip t ion of currency requirements. Settle- men ts are u s u a l ly made in U. S. do l la rs or other con- vertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and A rg en t in a, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru may be made th rough accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts by pub l ic sector agencies require the prior au thor iza t ion of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; they are not pe rm i t ted to import commodi- ties also available in Bolivia. Private imports of certain commod i t ies also requ ire such prior au tho r iza t ion; these goods include live cattle, var ious food s tu f f s, raw cotton, and pe t ro leum and petroleum products. The impo rt of cigarettes, cemen t, and cer ta in other locally produced goods is p roh ib i ted. All other goods may be imported free ly. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the f ree ma rke t; commercial banks make exchange ava i lab le the first business day a f ter receipt of 50 the application. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the Stabilization and Development Council. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market; commercial banks make exchange available the first business day after receipt of the application. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100, however, must indicate the purpose of their purchases. Furthermore, private enterprises are required to deposit in banks, for a minimum period of one year, dividends declared and profits accrued (net of income taxes); however, this requirement does not apply to the distribution of dividends and profits up to $b 20,000 per beneficiary and the payment of profits and dividends to nonresident beneficiaries is not prohibited. Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 60 for over- land travel to such countries, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 400 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. All proceeds f rom exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for fore ign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. The ma rke t ing of minerals is a state monopoly; in practice, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production and the Mining Bank that of the small m ines of the private sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Ou tward capital transfers by residents or nonresi- dents are free of control and may be made through the f ree marke t; inward capital t rans fe rs also may be made through that market. Commercial banks make exchange available the first business day af ter receipt of the application. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100 must indicate the purpose of the purchase. All fo re ign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, to govern- ment agencies and autonomous entities, and official ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior authori- zation by the Stabilization and Development Council. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of October 19, 1965, which guarantees the free convertibility and repatriation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of th is law may also benefit from its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia (INPIBOL). Investments in petroleum and m in ing are governed by the Petroleum Code and the Mining Code. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to purchase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. The Central Bank purchases gold from COMIBOL and one large mine, while the M in ing Bank buys from the smaller producers on behalf of the Central Bank; the Central Bank's purchases as we ll as those of the M in ing Bank are made at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quantity of gold annua l ly to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Exports and BOLIVIA imports of gold other than gold jewelry are not nor- mally permitted. Changes during 1970 May 15. A trade and payments agreement providing for settlements through special accounts was signed with Hungary. It came into force on the same date. June 25. The requirement introduced in October 1969 that all private m in ing companies constitute, for a minimum period of one year, noninterest-bearing depos- its equivalent of 1.5 per cent to 3 per cent of their export proceeds was eliminated by Supreme Decree No. 9286, and a procedure was introduced for the prompt liquidation of existing deposits. The obligation for all private firms of depositing divi- dends and profits for a m in imum period of one year was relaxed by the same Decree, which authorized pri- vate firms to distribute dividends and profits up to $b 20,000 for each beneficiary. August 5. The prohibition on imports of wool and some other goods was lifted. October 29. Decree-Law No. 09428 provided for the creation of a state bank, the Banco del Estado, which would take over the Central Bank's commercial bank- ing activities. November 20. A trade and payments agreement pro- viding for settlements through special accounts was signed with Poland. The agreement came into force on the same date. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA Exchange and Trade System Botswana's currency is the South Afr ican Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other cur- rencies. Botswana is part of the Sterling Area and is regarded as form ing part of the South African exchange control territory.1 The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning controls all external cur- rency transactions. Transfers of funds within the Ster- ling Area are normally approved if the funds were gen- erated in Botswana and the transferor is a bona fide resident of Botswana; where the export of funds to a country outside the Sterling Area is concerned, the approval is given in appropriate cases in agreement 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana are not regarded as residents of South Africa. with the South African Reserve Bank. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Botswana is a member of a customs un ion w i th Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods of South A f r ican origin. Furthermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhode- sian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. Changes during 1970 March 1. A revised Customs Union Agreement with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland came into force, replacing that of 1910. March 1. Imports of beer, tobacco, and cigarettes from Rhodesia were prohibited. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruz- eiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Central Bank operates in exchange in Rio de Janeiro, and the Bank of Brazil undertakes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the country. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effec- tive rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase foreign exchange from the banks and to sell exchange to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transactions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 31, 1970, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$4.920 and Cr$4.950 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or trav- elers checks were approximately the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U. S. dollar rates in Brazil and the dollar quotations for such currencies in international markets. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which for the rates listed above result in effective rates within 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the monetary authorities. On the buying side other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), (b) A 15 per cent contribu- tion ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuifao) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (c) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below), which spec- ifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the aver- age of actual remittances in any three-year period, from 1963 onward, is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large propor- tion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large por- tion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange pro- ceeds from certain exports of petroleum. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts from these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. All public sector agencies must carry out the ir exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange pro- ceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date when a trans- action is made. Like the other commercial banks, the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requirements of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. Moreover, the Bank of Brazil handles for the account of the Central Bank all exchange trans- actions in bilateral currencies (either direct or by trans- ferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa) and exchange transactions related to imports under U. S. aid. Finally, the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 50 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its cus- tomers. All free market transactions in foreign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through authorized banks. They may not maintain an oversold position in excess of US$500,000 on any working day; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to maintain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the monetary authorities. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Administration of Control The National Monetary Council, chaired by the Min- isters of Finance and Planning, is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Coun- cil, and under the supervision of the Director in charge of Foreign Exchange Operations of the Central Bank, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Operations Department (GECAM) and Department for the Control and Registration of For- eign Capital (FIRCE); the latter processes the registra- tion of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatria- tion and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also exercises approval authority over the terms of foreign financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days. Certain borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the interministerial Foreign Loans Commission (CEM- PEX). The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), chaired by the Minister of Industry and Commerce and established within his Ministry, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affa irs is the Coun- cil's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues export and import certificates (guias de exportagao and guias de importagao), and verifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifications, and types in import operations. CACEX also is in charge of approving import financing with terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ), which is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and operates within the general guidelines of the National Monetary Council. The Customs Policy Council (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for for- mulating guidelines for tariff policy, subject to the legal powers of the National Monetary Council and the National Council of Foreign Trade. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provi- sions of existing legislation. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agree- ment countries are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. These accounts are main- tained with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia. There is a reciprocal credit agreement between the 54 Central Bank of Brazil and the Central Bank of Ice- land. On the basis of provisions for the settlement of out- standing balances or transactions under the terminated bilateral agreement with the U. S. S. R., a few payments with that country are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Brazilian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros under a border trade agreement. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agreements have been signed with Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Peru, but those with Argentina and Chile have not yet come into operation. Imports and Import Payments Special arrangements described below apply to imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The import of recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 and of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. All other imports may be grouped into the following two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documentation, e.g., samples without commercial value, certain educational material, parts and accessories (valued up to the equivalent of US$2,000) for machinery, instruments, ships and aircraft, and (2) imports that require an import certificate. The bulk of imports falls into the second category. The import cer- tificate is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information CACEX may require. As a rule, import cer- tificates are issued freely and without undue delay; they are valid for 180 days. For a number of specified imports in the second category the import certificate may be obtained after the disembarkation of the com- modity in Brazil, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second cat- egory the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include imports for which tariff concessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, and used instru- ments, machinery, and equipment. The following rules apply with respect to the closing of exchange contracts for payment for imports. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. However, the maximum period for which payments for imports may be delayed must not exceed 180 days from the date of shipment. This period may be extended to 360 days in exceptional circumstances at the discretion of CACEX. Financing arrangements with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Any bona fide interest involved in the above credit arrangements is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved free ly. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is in tended to settle d ra f ts, at sight or on ma tur i ty, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled within 2 work ing days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a le t ter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened w i th in 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ord inar i ly requ ire a gua ran tee deposit for the ir own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guar- antee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. In certain cases, interest at about 0.5 per cent a mon th is charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes a "global foreign exchange con- tract" with the Bank of Brazil once every four months for its estimated requirements. The contract is con- cluded at the official market rate prevailing 10 days prior to the closing of the contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange con- tract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the "global con- tract" at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks; the rate applicable is again the one prevailing 10 days prior to the conclusion of the "global contract." Individual exchange contracts for petroleum shipments made during the life of the global contract are then closed at the exchange rate on which the latter is based. Pay- ment by Petrobras against such contracts is made in the following manner: 30 per cent of the value of an individual contract is deposited 15 days from the date of shipment, and the remaining 70 per cent 110 days after shipment. The liquidation of each individual con- tract 110 days after shipment is accompanied by the liquidation, up to an equivalent value, of the exchange contract signed by the Bank of Brazil with the Central Bank; the liquidation of this latter exchange contract also takes place at the exchange rate at which the con- tract was originally signed. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges imposed by Decree-Law No. 333 or Decree-Law No. 398.1 JFor some commodities, the application of import duties may be affected by the existence of similares nationals or the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a refer- ence price. BRAZIL Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assist- ance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Law. In add i t ion to ce r ta in res tr ic t ions on remittances s t ipu la ted in that law, limits are placed, by v i r tue of an in t e rn al Central Bank measure of Septem- ber 19, 1965, on remittances of all royalties and tech- n ical assistance fees (see b e low ). Au tho r ized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a mon th for personal remittances abroad. The sale of fore ign exchange for t ravel abroad is subject to special regu la t ions as described below. Payments for other cu r rent invisibles require the approval of GECAM, wh ich authorizes rem i t tances freely, subject to the presen ta t ion of supporting documents as evi- dence that a bona fide cu r rent transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected w i th travel abroad are perm i t ted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in banknotes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or trave lers checks for the rema inder. Applica- tions for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Amounts in excess of US$1,000, when au thor ized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign residents in transit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of the amount they sold dur ing the period of the ir stay in Braz i l; however, pur- chases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount pre- viously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase transac t ion is registered and the records of these operations, wh ich must con ta in the name of the clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the For- eign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury con- sumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. Remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. More- over, by virtue of an internal Central Bank measure of September 19, 1965, remittances of all technical assist- ance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are allowed when remuneration for such services does not exceed, as a rule, specified percent- ages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent of gross receipts from the sale or manufac ture of given prod- ucts for which such payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Under the provisions of Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966, exports are free of licensing. Accordingly, exports are grouped into the following three categories: (1) free exports, (2) exports subject to control, and (3) prohibited exports. The first category includes the large majority of exports. The second category is lim- ited to those goods that are considered to require con- trol in the national interest. The commodities included in the third category are exceptional cases regulated by specific laws. Exports of coffee are subject to authoriza- tion by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U. S. dollars per pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the Institute. The minimum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender without compensation a por- tion ("contribution quota") of their foreign exchange receipts;2 the cruzeiro equivalent of this portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribution quota, exporters receive (1) payment of a fixed cruzeiro amount per b a g3 determined from time to time by the Brazilian 2 The amount of the contribution depends upon the applicable min- imum registration price, the fixed cruzeiro amount paid per bag, and the prevailing free market buy ing rate. 3 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 56 Coffee Institute and (2) payment of the full cruzeiro equivalent at the free market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the m in imum registra- tion price. Thus, the effective exchange rate for coffee exports depends on (i) the cruzeiro payment per bag, ( i i) the minimum registration price, (iii) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U. S. dollars per pound ), and ( iv) the free market rate. Based on pay- ments per bag of c o f f e e4 of Cr$172.20, Cr$161.30. Cr$155.80, Cr$139.30, and Cr$131.00 for different grades and ports of shipment, and corresponding mini- mum registration prices per pound of US$0.51, US$0.51, US$0.50, US$0.47, and US$0.455, respec- tively, prevailing on December 31, 1970, and on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the m in imum registration price, the effective rates for proceeds from coffee exports on that date were Cr$2.558, Cr$2.396, Cr$2.361, Cr$2.245, and Cr$2.181 per US$1. During 1970, coffee exports were occasionally permitted to be made at a negotiated discount on the world market price. Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are not subject to the contribution quota and the exporter receives his full proceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. Exports of soluble coffee to the United States, however, are subject to an export tax expressed in cruzeiros and equivalent to US$0.13 a pound. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolu- tions of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a price guarantee system for exports of Brazilian coffee is maintained. Under these provisions a foreign impor ter of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Brazilian coffee below the level at which the importer's purchase took place. For any shipment date, the guarantee period at present is 60 days. The com- pensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the largest difference between (1) the average price of Santos 4 ex dock New York prevailing during 9 market days, of which the fifth day is the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute, and (2) the price for this coffee calculated on the basis of its moving average for periods of 10 consecutive market days in the period starting on the date of ship- ment and ending on the day when the respective guar- antee period terminates. The compensation takes the form of a credit that the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee from Brazil. The credits must be used within 90 days from the date of issue. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of 4 The cruzeiro payments per bag listed above include a temporary export bonus of Cr$6.20 applied to shipments from November 1, 1970 through February 28, 1971. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and exporters of cocoa derivatives (butter, cake, and powder) are required to surrender without compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. CACEX may, through the Fund for Export Financ- ing (FINEX), finance exports of consumer durable goods and capital goods against payment at medium term and long term, provided that the suppliers' credit does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced value. Credits granted for more than one year may be refinanced by CACEX for the fu ll amount payable, provided that the exporter has given the necessary guarantees and that the maturity of the loan is consid- ered compatible with the value of the exports and the terms for suppliers' credits prevailing in world markets. A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of manufactured commodities. These incen- tives include exemptions from indirect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, sometimes in the form of tax credits. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and for- eign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Trav- elers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows covered by Central Bank Resolution No. 63 or SUMOC Instruction No. 289 (see below) are subject to ceilings. Other financial loans in foreign currency require the prior approval of the Central Bank when they involve borrowing by private entities from private sources. The prior approval of CEMPEX is required for borrowing by the public sector and, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institu- tions, for borrowing by the private sector. Moreover, import financing with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, foreign capital and the reinvest- ment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and BRAZIL monetary resources brought into the country for invest- ment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domi- ciled abroad or w i th headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registra- tion, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or goods, and it includes rein- vested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enter- prise and that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufacturer himself or a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. For financed imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, that the amortization schedule is not dispropor- tionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nationals. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domi- ciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a com- pany, and the date of their reinvestment. To facilitate the supply of work ing capital by foreign investors in Brazil, SUMOC Instruction No. 289, as amended, provides for the entry of short-term foreign capital either through the Bank of Brazil or any other authorized bank, subject to the prior authorization of 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL the Central Bank. Approvals are limited to the amount of such loan transactions that mature during any given month. Central Bank approval guarantees the seller of the foreign exchange automatic registration at FIRCE for the purposes of the Foreign Investment Law, and the right of repurchase of the same amount free of any restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges that may exist. The repurchase must be a spot transaction in the free market with the Bank of Brazil or any other authorized bank and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part after 180 days, but will expire after 360 days. Moreover, to facilitate the use of foreign credits by Brazilian enterprises, Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, authorizes private commercial and invest- ment banks to take up foreign credits for relending to the domestic private sector for the purpose of financing fixed or working capital. The certificate or registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Investment Law is furnished by FIRCE upon application. The safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to assume the exchange risk involved in these transactions; moreover, new transac- tions are limited to amounts that will not cause the level of maturities falling due in any one month to rise above US$25 million. Other transfers to foreign countries require authori- zation by GECAM, which considers applications on their merits. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the prevailing market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Gold mining is ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. SUMOC Instruction No. 27 stipulates that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. This provision has never been enforced, however, and the monetary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 8 per cent, a turnover tax of 17 per cent, and a consumption tax of 18 per cent. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX and is free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certif- icate. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1970)5 (Cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying 2.181-2.558 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Mar- ket Rate, Listed Cruzeiro Payment a Bag, and Minimum Registration Price) 6 Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the mini- mum registration price, for payment at sight. 4.182 (Official Market Rate less 15% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 4.674 (Official Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota)7 Exports of cocoa derivatives. 4.920 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 4.920 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds.8 Other receipts. Selling 4.950 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 4.950 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.9 Capital. 5 Excluding brokerage fees. 6 The fixed cruzeiro payment per bag and the minimum registration price (in U. S. dollars per pound) vary with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. During 1970, exports of coffee usually took place at prices well in excess of the minimum registra- tion price. 7 Central Bank Resolution No. 159 of September 10, 1970 sus- pended the 5 per cent contribution quota on exports of cocoa deriva- tives equivalent to 300,000 bags (of 132 pounds each) of cocoa beans. 8 Exports of soluble coffee to the United States are subject to an export tax expressed in cruzeiros and equivalent to US$0.13 a pound. 9 A different effective rate applies to certain remittances of profits and dividends (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1970 During 1970 the fixed cruzeiro payment per bag (132 pounds) of the various grades of coffee was increased on three occasions (March 1, March 23, and November 25); in addition, the cruzeiro payment was augmented by an export bonus of Cr$6.20 a bag for coffee shipped between November 1, 1970 and Febru- ary 28, 1971. The minimum registration prices were increased on eleven occasions, on the first day of each month between January and November. The effective exchange rates applicable to proceeds from coffee exports at the prevailing minimum registration prices were changed accordingly. Also, during 1970 the price guarantee system for coffee exports was extended from month to month, thus ensuring foreign importers, under certain conditions, of a compensation for any reduction during specified guarantee periods in the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York below the level at which the export was registered. Certain coffee sales were allowed to be made below world market prices, but such sales were discontinued early in 1971. January 15. An agreement was reached among the Secretaries of Finance of the States and the Federal District to grant firms exporting their manufactured products, in addition to the exemption from the state value-added tax (ICM) from which such exports already benefited, a credit in respect of the above tax. The credit was to be equivalent in value to the one granted to exports of manufactures in respect of the tax on industrialized products (IPI), and, as in the latter case, was not to exceed 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the exported commodity. January 30. Central Bank Resolution No. 133 pro- vided that foreign capital entering Brazil in accordance with SUMOC Instruction 289 could be sold also to any authorized bank, which was then required to surrender such foreign exchange immediately to the Central Bank. Previously, foreign exchange arising from loans contracted abroad under the provisions of the above instruction could be sold only to the Bank of Brazil. February 4. Decree No. 66175 abolished the require- ment of an import visa from the Brazilian consular authorities abroad on commercial invoices for ship- ments of imports effective March 7, 1970. February 4. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.325 and NCr$4.350 per US$1 to NCr$4.380 and NCr$4.410 per US$1, respectively. February 18. The ceiling on commercial banks' rediscounts for the financing of the production of man- ufactures for export was raised from 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the ordinary rediscount facilities. February 26. IBC Resolution No. 490 discontinued the quota system for exports of coffee to "traditional BRAZIL markets" that was introduced by Resolution No. 479 of October 17, 1969. March 30. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed from NCr$4.380 and NCr$4.410 per US$1 to NCr$4.460 and NCr$4.490 per US$1, respectively. March 31. Central Bank Resolution No. 144 pro- vided that, effective May 15, 1970, the monetary unit introduced on February 13, 1967 would cease to be referred to as the "new cruzeiro." It was henceforth to be called the "cruzeiro." April 20. Order No. GB-101 of the Minister of Finance revoked the import prohibition for new auto- mobiles valued at over US$3,500. May 18. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed from Cr$4.460 and Cr$4.490 per US$1 to Cr$4.530 and Cr$4.560 per US$1, respectively. June 26. The reciprocal credit agreement with Peru was put into effect. July 1. The reciprocal credit agreement with Mexico was put into effect. July 6. CPA Resolution No. 824 re-established mini- mum import values for customs valuation purposes for which such values had been fixed on a temporary basis by CACEX, subject to the approval of the CPA. It reduced considerably the number of imports for which minimum values had been fixed by CACEX and low- ered in a number of cases the minimum values applied. Three groups of imports were distinguished: (1) those for which minimum import values were fixed for an indefinite period of time with a view to correcting irregularities in international price quotations (e.g., caustic soda, dyes, whiskey, steel plates, cameras, elec- tric valves); (2) those for which minimum import values were established for a period of 180 days to determine whether price discrepancies were due to dumping practices or whether domestic costs were too high; and (3) those for which minimum import values were reduced (mainly dyes). July 10. Decree-Law No. 1.111 withdrew the power previously held by CACEX to establish new minimum import values. Existing minimum import values consoli- dated on July 6 (see above) were maintained, however. The decree also empowered the CPA to establish refer- ence prices for the purpose of computing ad valorem duties on imports that undergo considerable price fluc- tuations as between various sources. The reference price was to be calculated on the basis of the normal wholesale price of the given commodity in the export- ing country, plus insurance and freight charges and minus any export rebates. Should such information not be available, the reference price could also be fixed on the basis of the c.i.f. import prices of a given commod- 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ity over the nearest six months; the reference price determined in this manner could never exceed the high- est c.i.f. import price calculated in respect of the coun- try of origin of a given import during the above six- month period. The customs duty then levied was to be a combination of a specific rate (which consisted of the difference between the reference price and the c.i.f. import price) and the prevailing ad valorem rate, applied to the reference price. These arrangements would not be applicable to imports from LAFTA coun- tries. July 10. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed from Cr$4.530 and Cr$4.560 per US$1 to Cr$4.590 and Cr$4.620 per US$1, respectively. July 24. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed from Cr$4.590 and Cr$4.620 per US$1 to Cr$4.620 and Cr$4.650 per US$1, respectively. August 10. Decree-Law No. 1118 provided addi- tional tax incentives for exports of manufactured goods. August 18. CONCEX Resolution No. 60 made cer- tain changes designed to simplify administrative proce- dures governing imports. The requirement of an import license was discontinued. Broadly, the fo l low ing groups of imports were established: (1) those which no longer required an import certificate; (2) those which contin- ued to be subject to an import certificate; and (3) those which were prohibited by legislation. In addition, for certain imports, to be set forth by CACEX, the import certificate could be obtained af ter their disem- barkation in Brazil. A number of imports required the prior approval of CACEX; they included those for which ta r i ff concessions were being sought, goods to be brought in under foreign financing, and used instru- ments, equ ipmen t, and machinery. August 18. CACEX Announcement No. 308 regu- lated the provisions of CONCEX Resolution No. 60 (see above ). It listed imports for which an import cer- tificate was no longer required, imports for which a certificate could be obtained a f ter their un load ing in Brazil, and imports which were prohibited by law (originating in or shipped f rom Cuba and Rhodesia). August 18. Central Bank Resolution No. 151 elimi- nated the requirement that an exchange contract be con- cluded for certain consumer goods (listed in the Annex to Decree-Law No. 398 of December 30, 1968) and of automobiles, light u t i l i ty trucks, and station wagons prior to the issue of the import certificate. August 18. GECAM Announcement No. 155 stipu- lated that the max imum period (free of special approval) for payment of imports for which no import 60 certificate was required would be 180 days from the date of shipment. August 21. CACEX Announcement No. 310 pro- vided that requests for payment terms beyond 180 days and up to 360 days from the date of embarkation of the import from abroad had to be presented to CACEX together with the relevant applications for the import certificate. Such requests were to be approved only for imports of raw materials, spare parts for direct use by the importer, and capital goods which were not produced domestically. Interest on such financing was to be computed only from the 181st day counting from the date of embarkation. In exceptional cases, CACEX could also approve payment terms up to 360 days for other commodities which were not pro- duced domestically, provided there was no interest pay- ment involved. August 27. Central Bank Resolution No. 154 reduced f rom 70 per cent to 40 per cent the proportion of the exporters' share of exchange proceeds from coffee exports that authorized banks had to surrender to the Central Bank. August 27. FIRCE Announcement No. 17 regulated certain procedures governing import financing. Financ- ing arrangements with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 required the prior approval of the Central Bank, which considered appli- cations on the basis of the foreign indebtedness policy established by the National Monetary Council. If approved, the applicant had 90 days within which to submit the application for Central Bank registration for the purpose of remittances of the relevant interest and amortization payments. It was fur ther provided that the nonf inanced portion of the contract, i.e., the part to be liquidated prior to shipment of the goods, could not exceed 20 per cent of the total value of the financing. Moreover, repayments could not be disproportionately heavy in the early stages of the amortization. August 27. FIRCE Announcement No. 18 contained new regulations governing foreign financial loans. Henceforth, all such loans had to have specified matur- ities and, as in the case of import financing (see above), repayments could not be disproportionately heavy in the early stages of the amortization. August 27. GECAM Announcement No. 156 pro- vided tha t, effective September 11, 1970 minimum ma tur i t ies for loans brought in under SUMOC Instruc- tion No. 289 were to be extended from 60 to 180 days. Max imum ma tu r i t ies remained unchanged at 360 days. September 10. Central Bank Resolution No. 158 pro- vided that foreign exchange transactions tak ing place in t r ad ing centers with operating stock exchanges had to be channeled obligatorily through authorized brokerage companies. Exempt from this provision were exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions valued at less than the equivalent of US$1,000, transactions in the manual market, includ- ing travelers checks, interbank transactions, and opera- tions involving government agencies. Brokerage fees were to be calculated on a sliding scale, on the respec- tive equivalents in cruzeiros, as follows: up to US$500,000, %6 of 1 per cent; from US$500,000 up to US$1 million, % of 1 per cent; and over US$1 million, %G of 1 per cent. September 10. Central Bank Resolution No. 159 exempted exports of cocoa derivatives equivalent of up to 300,000 bags of cocoa beans from the contribution quota. September 15. Ministerial Order No. GB-254 exempted from the tax on industrial products (IPI), manufac tures sold by industrial establishments, against payment by travelers checks, to persons domiciled abroad who are traveling in Brazil. The exemption was subject, inter alia, to the presentation of a passport as proof that the person is in transit in Brazil and to the completion of specified tax forms, copies of which had to be forwarded to the Federal Revenue Agencies. The travelers checks received by the industrial establish- ments had to be surrendered to any authorized bank within 15 days of the issue of the tax forms. September 18. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$4.620 and Cr$4.650 per US$1 to Cr$4.690 and Cr$4.720 per US$1, respectively. September 23. CONCEX Resolution No. 64 pro- vided that imports of used machinery, equipment, and ins trumen ts were to be permitted only under the fol- lowing conditions: that similar machinery and equip- ment was not manufactured domestically, that the goods were designed for the exclusive use of the importer, and that in the case of imports of used preci- sion instruments and machine tools the items not be older than five years. September 30. CACEX Announcement No. 316 con- solidated, with minor revisions, the existing provisions determining the circumstances in which the use of Bra- zilian vessels was mandatory for importers. October 1. The bilateral payments arrangements with Yugoslavia were revised and the swing credit was increased from US$2 million to US$6 million. October 1. Revised payments arrangements with Ice- land entered into force. A credit agreement between the Central Banks of Iceland and Brazil, replacing the BRAZIL payments agreement of September 1, 1968, provided for settlements on a U. S. dollar basis. Previously, set- tlements were channeled through accounts denominated in pounds sterling. October 26. IBC Resolution No. 506 modified the method of calculating the compensation to be received by a foreign importer under the price guarantee system for Brazilian coffee exports. The compensation was to be the largest difference between (1) the average price of Santos 4 ex dock New York prevailing during nine market days, of which the fifth day was to be the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute, and (2) the price for this coffee calculated on the basis of a moving average for a period of ten consecutive market days in the period starting on the date of ship- ment and ending on the thirtieth day after shipment. Previously, the price of Santos 4 under (1) above used for the calculation was the one prevailing on the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute. November 1. A temporary export bonus of Cr$6.20 a bag was granted on coffee shipped between this date and February 28, 1971. November 4. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$4.690 and Cr$4.720 per US$1, to Cr$4.780 and Cr$4.810 per US$1, respectively. November 18. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$4.780 and Cr$4.810 per US$1, to Cr$4.830 and Cr$4.860 per US$1, respectively. November 24. IBC Resolution No. 508 changed the guarantee period applicable to the price guarantee sys- tem for exports of Brazilian coffee (see October 26, above) from 30 days to 60 days, starting from the date of shipment. November 25. GECAM Announcement No. 165 provided that foreign exchange in payment for the cost of any freight and insurance relating to imports would be sold henceforth on the basis of appropriate docu- mentation, i.e., bill of lading, insurance policy or insur- ance certificate, etc. Import certificates would be issued by CACEX on an f.o.b. basis. Previously, import cer- tificates could be issued for the c.i.f. value of imports and foreign exchange could be sold on that basis. December 22. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$4.830 and Cr$4.860 per US$1 to Cr$4.920 and Cr$4.950 per US$1, respectively. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat or K 4.76190 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for sterling of the People's Bank of Burma, the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, are Is. 91/sd., and Is. 8%d., respectively, per K 1. The Bank's buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the kyat-sterling rates and the London market rates for the currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue, through the Exchange Control Department of the People's Bank of Burma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export- Import Corporation (MEIC or Trade Corporation No. 22). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requirements are determined by the Central Trade Council. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most payments and imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Revenue. Prescription of Currency Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in con- vertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annually as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All imports from Rhode- sia and South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source— principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, play- ing cards, and gold and silver bullion. Consumer goods imports are severely restricted. Most imports are pur- chased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Line whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the People's Bank of Burma. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most 62 other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only by for- eign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment other than that guar- anteed under the Investment Act have been suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired govern- ment employees who served the Government as Bur- mese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents granted an official permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except India) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. At present, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employ- ment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which it is desired to conserve for domestic requirements. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Export pro- ceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities; the exchange must be sur- rendered to the People's Bank of Burma within six months from the date of shipment. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by Burma Five Star Line or on vessels nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are to be considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, no private investments have been made under the Act; since February 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the withdrawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may, subject to prior approval, be made at the official rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. However, transfers of capital proceeds from the voluntary liqui- dation of foreign companies were suspended in July 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the BURMA public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of pay- ments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Burma. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, how- ever, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1970 February 1. The State Commercial Bank, which was the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, was taken over by the People's Bank of Burma. This com- pleted the unification of the banking system. August 11. The reconversion of kyats by departing nonresident travelers ceased to be limited to one fourth of the amount of foreign currency previously converted into kyats. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc or FBu 87.50 = US$1. The exchange rates for the U. S. dollar quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi are fixed at FBu 87.0625 buying, and FBu 87.9375 selling, per US$1. The Bank quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc based on the fixed rates for the U. S. dollar and the official market rate for U. S. dollars in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other specified currencies * which are based on its quoted rates for the Belgian franc and the official market rates for the cur- rencies concerned in Brussels, or, in the case of the Tanzania shilling, those for sterling. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank; they may agree rates freely with their customers for certain other currencies.2 The official rates for the Belgian franc on December 31, 1970 were FBu 175 buying, and FBu 176.76 selling, per BF 100. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the central bank, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not consid- ered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) juridical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the pro- ceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the central bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs, for any normal current payment in Burundi, and for conversion into foreign exchange (except banknotes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn. 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, and U. S. dollars. 2 Kenya shillings and Uganda shillings. 64 Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and repre- sentation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applications for licen- ses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a form entitled Import License and Pay- ment Authorization. The approval of such an applica- tion constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month follow- ing that of validation; in special cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for certain luxury goods from importers whose outstanding exchange commitments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Trans- fers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permit- ted upon proof of payment of taxes, up to 20-65 per cent of net annual income, depending on the amount ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profession, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an indi- vidual or a partnership. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer their full net profits after taxes, or, if the stockholders are resident foreign nationals, two thirds of profits after taxes. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners is permitted after payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resi- dent owners may remit two thirds of such income. Resi- dents of Burundi nationality may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to certain limits against pay- ment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declarations must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for the principal export commodities (coffee, cotton, and hides), which may be certified by author- ized banks. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Pay- ments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered to an author- ized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fulfills specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges BURUNDI are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's eco- nomic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activi- ties will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Minister of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in Belgian francs or other specified currencies (those listed in footnote 1) by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the official rate of the original amount surrendered. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank. All other private dealing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases unrefined, newly mined gold from domestic producers at FBu 100.00 a gram (corresponding to US$35.546 a troy ounce). After refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1970 April 21. The Burundi franc was pegged to the U. S. dollar, while previously the Bank of the Republic of Burundi had maintained fixed buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc. The spread between parity and buying and selling rates for transactions with the public was increased from 0.40 per cent to 0.50 per cent, and that for dealings with commercial banks from 0.25 per cent to 0.3125 per cent. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI September 3. The buying price for newly mined gold from domestic producers was increased from FBu 95.00 to FBu 100.00 a gram. December 7. The Tanzania shilling was included in the list of currencies for which buying and selling rates are fixed by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Pre- viously, the rates for that currency were freely agreed by the commercial banks. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Cameroonian agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commer- cial banks in Cameroon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency con- cerned, and in principle include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures do not apply to rela- tions with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Cameroon itself, are considered foreign countries, and financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub-Directo- rate of Financial Operations in the Directorate of Eco- nomic Controls, Ministry of Finance, which also super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Com- merce. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any ^he CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. other Operations Account country.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources outside the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union of cer- tain goods (including flour, rice, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, and matches) requires a prior authorization (autorisation prealable); when these goods are imported from countries other than France or Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area, they require in addition an import license. Other imports from France and from member states and associated states of the EEC may be made freely, and the former do not require a license. Some commodities are liberalized from all sources. Moreover, imports from any country made by industrialists for use in their own enterprises are also liberalized. Licenses for liberalized commodities are issued without restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and are discussed in a joint French-Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the program are subsequently subdi- vided into quotas for West and East Cameroon. On licenses issued under the import program, goods originating in any country other than France, an Oper- ations Account country of the French Franc Area, or an EEC country may be imported. However, there is a separate quota for textiles from Asian countries. Import licenses for imports outside the import pro- gram, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign religious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer under- takes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is an allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation purposes. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of for- eigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not per- mitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries; if they avail themselves of this facility, their foreign exchange allocation is reduced correspondingly. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions relating to foreign 68 countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected within a month of the date of arrival at their destination and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to foreign countries may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cam- eroon; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. The provisions of Decree No. 67/DF/365, which introduced these special controls, have been suspended insofar as they are con- trary to Decree No. 687 DF/460, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, for- eign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized intermedi- ary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Direct investments ab road3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liqui- dation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon 4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital in- crease resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been ap- proved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cam- eroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of Cameroon. 4 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. CAMEROON obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Cam- eroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institu- tions; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, their duration does not exceed two years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must sub- sequently be reported to him. The following are, how- ever, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Cam- eroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit in- stitutions. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and re- vised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both for- eign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Cate- gory A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, in- cluding the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, and (2) imports and ex- ports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 January 6. Certain cooperation agreements were signed with Equatorial Guinea. June 12. Decree No. 70-DF-273 shifted the adminis- tration of exchange control and of the controls over inward and outward investment from the Ministry of Commerce to the Ministry of Finance. June 23. Decree No. 70-DF-327 created in the Min- istry of Finance a Directorate of Economic Controls with a Sub-Directorate of Financial Operations, which in turn comprised an Exchange Control Bureau. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Dollar or Can$l = US$0.925. Since May 31, 1970, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within margins 1 per cent either side of the par value, and therefore all transactions, for the time being, take place at a fluctuat- ing exchange rate. The free market rate for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1970 was about Can$1.01 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. In implementation of UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968, payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricul- tural items, including certain cereals, for gasoline and natural gas, and for material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some of the agricultural items, such as most dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are generally pro- hibited; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand a ircraf t, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to CMEA countries and mainland China are subject to control, although certain nonstra- tegic goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under general permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical sup- plies, news ma ter ia l, educational equipment and mate- rials for use in educational institutions, and books, magazines, and periodicals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Individual travelers leaving Canada may not take out more than Can$5 in silver coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Certain guidelines issued in 1968 apply to chart- ered banks and other financial institutions with respect to their foreign assets and liabilities and to companies incorporated in Canada with respect to transfers of capital to overseas countries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act of 1948, all mines receiv- ing subsidies are required to sell their newly mined gold to the Royal Canadian Mint. Af ter refining, this gold is disposed of in the free market to established wholesale dealers by the Bank of Canada, acting as agent for the Government. Exports of gold are subject to the following conditions: (1) exports to CMEA countries and mainland China are included among those subject to control and require a license from the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold not of Canadian origin may only be re-exported to a country other than the United States when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act; (3) owing to the general embargo on trade w i th Rhodesia, movements of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of arti- cles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1970 January 26. The Bank of Canada requested a number of financial institutions (investment dealers and trust companies) not to frus tra te the effect of the tem- porary ceiling on chartered banks' foreign currency swap deposits by arranging similar transactions in other ways, such as the splitting of transactions by having one institution take the foreign currency deposit and another arrange the forward cover. March 30. The Bank of Canada withdrew its request to chartered banks of July 16, 1969 to regard the exist- ing level of their foreign currency swap deposits as a temporary ceiling. The related requests to other finan- cial institutions also were withdrawn. The amount of the aggregate ceilings had been Can$ 1,720 million. May 7. Imports of gasoline into Eastern Canada 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA from offshore points were made subject to import licen- ses in order to control the movement of imported gaso- line into the area west of the Ottawa valley. May 31. The Minister of Finance announced that, for the time being, Canada would not maintain the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within the exist- ing margins. August 14. Import control was extended to addi- tional da iry products, including all types of cheese, dry whole milk, evaporated and condensed milk, and animal feeds containing more than 40 per cent of nonfat milk solids. Import permits would not normally be issued, except for natural cheese. August 17. All applications to import gasoline required approval by the National Energy Board, which would decide whether such imports would be consistent with the development and utilization of Canadian indigenous oil resources. November 2. Restrictions on nickel exports were withdrawn and the embargo on shipments of nickel scrap was l if ted. Exports remained subject to formal control authority, but export licenses were issued freely. November 27. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce announced that a temporary program of subsidies to the shipbuilding industry would be estab- lished for a period of 18 months to June 30, 1972. December 31. The Emergency Gold Mining Act was extended to June 30, 1973 without change in the for- mula for computing the amount of assistance payable. An amendment prohibited the payment of assistance to lode gold mines which were not in production as of August 7, 1970. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central Afri- can Republic has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commis- sion charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax of 2l/2 per cent (subject to a mini- mum of CFAF 500) is levied on most exchange trans- actions with, and payments to, countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries. In addition to payments to the countries men- tioned, the following are exempt: (1) transactions of less than CFAF 12,500; (2) all operations relating to foreign exchange receipts; (3) foreign currency allow- ances for travel to countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (4) government expenditures in countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (5) transactions of international organizations and embassies; and (6) transactions carried out w i th the member countries of the EEC. With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central African Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Came- roon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Central African Republic itself, are considered foreign coun- tries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign 1The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has dele- gated some of his approval authority to the BCEAEC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administra- tion. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Mines and Geology. Prescription of Currency The Central African Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those coun- tries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited.4 Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. The import from all countries of enameled household utensils and of textiles of qualities also produced domestically is prohibited, as is the import from Chad of beer and certain soft drinks. The import of many foodstuffs from all sources is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of butter and cheese from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear and 2 The authority delegated to the BCEAEC relates to (a) the con- trol over the external position of the banks, and (b) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances. 3 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with the Sudan. 4 With effect from January 1, 1971, BCEAEC banknotes could again be credited to convertible Foreign Accounts in Francs, pro- vided that they were mailed direct to the BCEAEC agency in Bangui by foreign correspondents of authorized banks. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC paints not originating in a member country of the UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to pur- chases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages from all sources require an import authoriza- tion from the Ministry of the Interior, for health rea- sons. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EEC countries also are free from quantitative restrictions. Imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character, but are not normally restricted or subject to quota, import licenses being required for statistical purposes only. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authori- zation. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this alloca- tion, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country; of this allocation, an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank- notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a for- eigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to for- 74 eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into foreign cur- rency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. The National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products has a monopoly over the export of agricultural products. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter generally must fall within 180 days of shipment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of serv- ices and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in the Central African Repub- lic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad5 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic 6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidating of direct investments, whether Central African Republic invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- 5 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Cen- tral African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 'Including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of foreign companies. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC eign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central Afr ican Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale in the Central African Republic has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by reg- istered banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the oper- ation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of For- eign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Central African Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C, which con- tains the most favorable provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's eco- nomic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which consid- ers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommen- dation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an author- ized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes during 1970 August 28. Decree No. 70-234 prohibited imports of tape recorders, record players, and portable radios from all sources. The ban was lifted on December 9 by Decree No. 70-378. August 30. Ordinance No. 70-48 created the Office national de commercialisation des produits agricoles. It was given a monopoly over the marketing, at home and abroad, of all agricultural products. December 1. All imports from and exports to Portu- gal, Rhodesia, and South Africa were suspended by Letter No. 7437MT of September 28, 1970. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee or Cey Rs 5.95237 = US$1. Another effective exchange rate of Cey Rs 9.23 per US$1 arises from transactions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of nontraditional exports (i.e., exports other than tea, rubber, and major coconut products but including instant tea) and most other earners or recipi- ents of foreign exchange are entitled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonresident trav- elers when converting foreign exchange into Ceylon rupees at the official rate may also receive either corre- sponding certificates or their cash value in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Ceylon rupees and are issued with a face value equivalent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are transfera- ble w i th in 30 days of the date of issue and may also be surrendered to the monetary authorities for encashment at a price of Cey Rs 55 per Cey Rs 100 in certificates. Additional certificates are sold by the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand and at the same price; such certifi- cates are not transferable. Certificates with a face value corresponding at the official rate to the amount of foreign exchange required must be surrendered when purchasing foreign exchange for payments in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The Central Bank deals in certificates for up to four months forward, at Cey Rs 56 selling and C eyR s54 buying per Cey Rs 100 certificate; transac- tions are permitted only when relating to anticipated genuine payments and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. The par va lue rate is applicable to receipts from major exports and to payments for most food items, fertilizers, drugs, and certain other imports (mainly of government corporations producing essential goods, small industries, and research institutes), as well as some invisibles. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 14.29 = £1) and the rates for the currencies concerned against sterling in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, inc lud ing an import program, is d rawn up annua l ly. All remittances of foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for most imports of the industrial sector, both private and public, are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries and Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations prescribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Payments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts from the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with nine countries with which Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements,1 with the United Arab Republic, and (for certain transactions only) with Pak- istan must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rho- desia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor coun try. Receipts from all other countries except Rho- desia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency,2 other than a Ster- ling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area currency marke tab le in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Trans- fers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used for investment in Ceylon in prescribed securi- ties. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained in 1 Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, and U. S. S. R. - The currency of any coun t ry of the Sterling Area, Au s t r ian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for mak ing films in Ceylon. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to specified amounts), all imports require individual licen- ses. All imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities, fertilizers, certain specified imports of government departments and government corporations, books and periodicals, and two-wheeled tractors. The B category includes all remaining imports. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced items are either prohibited or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government-spon- sored corporations and registered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain com- modities for their own use, subject to special authoriza- tion. Imports of specified commodities 3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or Lanka Salu Sala Ltd.; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of in- dustrial raw ma ter ia ls, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and ( 3) established importers who import goods for trad ing purposes. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit fore ign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to f u r n i s h, evidence of importation and the cost of the goods together w i th a valid importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee paymen t; imports in the A category do not require the surrender of certificates. Import licenses exceeding Cey Rs 50,000 for imports of raw materials are subject to a m in imum deferred payment term. Let- ters of credit against such licenses may be opened pro- vided that d r a f ts are drawn payable not earlier than six months a f ter the shipment. A downpayment of 25 per cent or 50 per cent is mandatory on opening letters of credit for the import of truck chassis, but the establish- ment of a letter of credit is not prescribed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require surren- der of certificates corresponding to the full amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of certifi- cates are (1) certain official and semiofficial travel expenditures abroad,4 (2) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad, (3) remittances abroad by nonnationals for family maintenance, (4) expenditures for approved pilgrimages, (5) certain provident f u nd contributions and l ife insurance prem- iums, (6) pensions and the final remittance, on retire- ment, of provident and pension funds, (7) expenditures of fore ign embassies, official international organizations, and foreign diplomatic personnel, and (8) other expen- ditures abroad specifically exempted from the certificate surrender requirement by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on poli- cies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for furloughs of nonnationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of tradi- tional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £. stg. 10 a day for a maximum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of posi- tive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educational institutions in "Asian group" countries,5 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 350 a month is allowed. For study in the United Kingdom, foreign exchange is made available at «£ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and <£ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies, plus actual fees and cost of books. For study in educational insti- tutions elsewhere (other than the United States and 3 These include rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, red onion, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, masoor, dhal, dried chillies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, Bombay onion, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manu fac tu res of textile materials. 4 When met out of the budget allocations for a government depart- ment or ministry, a state corporation, or an institution exempt from the operation of the certificate scheme. 5 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East Afri- can region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, I r an, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Canada ), the maximum allowable is «£ stg. 53 for undergraduate and «£ stg. 70 for postgraduate studies; the maximum for the United States and Canada are US$225 and US$240 for undergraduate and postgrad- uate studies, respectively. For travel and other expenses for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treat- ment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as certi- fied by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit <£ stg. 85 a month for a wife, «£ stg. 60 for a child going to school, <£ stg. 25 for other children, and <£ stg. 45 a month less monthly income abroad for an employed child, up to a maximum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary resi- dents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Ceylonese nationals are not granted exchange for family remit- tances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Resi- dents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (C eyR s25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports. The export of some items is banned, and that of certain others requires export licenses issued by the relevant government agency. Rubber exports to mainland China, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. are under state trading. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. CEYLON The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods has been or will be received in Ceylon under prescribed regulations and, usually, w i th in four months from the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered. Exporters of all goods other than tea (excluding instant tea ), rubber, coconut oil, copra, dessicated coconut, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive cer- tificates with a face value in Ceylon rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Export- ers can use these certificates as supporting documents when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the sur- render of certificates. Certificates are freely transferable within 30 days from the date of issue; they have to be surrendered to the mone tary authorities or an author- ized bank before the expiry of that period. Certificates are not transferable thereafter, but the holders can use them when mak ing foreign exchange payments within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Exporters of precious stones receive, in addition to certificates as indicated above, licenses to import raw materials (other than gold) for the jewelry industry corresponding to 25 per cent of their export receipts. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the fo l low ing headings entitle the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) private transfers and donations; and (5) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by- case basis, by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates correspond- ing to the amount of foreign exchange converted with authorized dealers; alternatively, the latter may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the for- eign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of for- eign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ceylon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Ceylon notes in denominations of Cey Rs 10 or less may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, pro- vided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj- ects which are specifically approved by the Government, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Ceylon, in shares of public compa- nies incorporated in Ceylon; capital transfers for direct investment in Ceylon are entitled to receive certificates upon conversion of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capi- tal appreciation; transfers require surrender of certifi- cates. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of invest- ments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in pre- scribed Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Ceylon that are consid- ered and approved by the Foreign Investment Approval Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Employ- ment are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by resi- dents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, if directed by the Central Bank, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to pre- scribed limits, the transfer of their net income is allowed for one year from the date of emigration, after deduction of any income being earned abroad, if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizen- ship, net income may be transferred, within certain limits, even after one year. Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the coun- try of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of sav- ings up to a maximum of Cey Rs 75,000 for Indian and Pakistani nationals and Cey Rs 150,000 for other nationals. However, for persons other than Indian and Pakistani nationals who prior to 1965 had already accumulated amounts in retirement funds in excess of Cey Rs 150,000, special provision is made for transfers of amounts up to Cey Rs 250,000. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they origi- nally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, sub- ject to the above limits. Transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requires surrender of certificates; exempt are (1) balances on provident and pension 80 funds held abroad and representing contributions in respect of contractual obligations entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provident and pension funds held in rupees in Ceylon, and (3) the value of insurance poli- cies held abroad and taken out before May 6, 1968. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Ceylon and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Central Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The People's Bank is the sole importer of gold. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jewelers at the equivalent of US$83 an ounce. Small quantities are also sold to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1970 During the year, part of the profits and dividends that had accumulated during the 1964-68 transfer morato- rium were released for transfer overseas. January 6. Exports of pallets used in the export of tea qualified for Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certifi- cates. January 13. The license fee on imports under loan or aid agreements was raised from 20 per cent to 35 per cent. May 29. All applications for establishment of letters of credit in respect of imports under open general license became subject to the approval of the Control- ler of Exchange. Since the opening of a letter of credit for such imports was mandatory, this action was tanta- mount to a suspension of the open general license. Com- mercial banks were informed that until further notice the sale of exchange certificates, spot as well as forward, should be suspended, except where certificates were required to retire maturing import bills or to remit for- eign exchange against permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. By the end of the year this instruction had not been revoked. June. The allocation of exchange for pilgrimages was suspended. July 1. All c.i.f. exports were required to be insured with the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon; previously, this requirement applied only to tea shipped to London auctions. August 4. The open general license for imports, which had been applicable mainly to industrial raw materials and spare parts, was withdrawn. Henceforth all imports required a specific import license and the goods pre- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution viously on open general license became subject to quotas. Subsequently, substantial reductions were made in the exchange allocations for imports and extensive use was made of short-term import credits. September 6. The issuance of import licenses exceeding Cey Rs 50,000 for imports of raw materials and packing materials by the private sector became subject to a minimum deferred payment term of six months. Letters of credit up to twelve months were permitted against such licenses, provided that drafts were made payable not earlier than six months after shipment of the goods. Authorized dealers were allowed to enter into forward exchange contracts against such credits for twelve months. September 21. The bilateral payments agreement with North Korea was terminated. October 26. A new customs tariff went into effect. It involved a simplification and rationalization of the tariff structure and provided for six basic rates of import duty. All commodities were distributed over the six rate bands according to consideration of essentiality, industrial pro- tection, and revenue. October 27. All foreign payments of the Ceylon Transport Board, the Ceylon Electricity Board, and the Sri Lanka Sugar Corporation, and all payments for imports of sugar and corn, ceased to be exempt from the requirement to surrender Foreign Exchange Enti- tlement Certificates. However, this requirement was removed from payments for imports of books and peri- odicals, two-wheeled tractors, implements and spare parts, and raw cotton and cotton yarn. The net effect of these changes was a widening of the certificate market. October 27. An amnesty was announced under which the repatriation before March 31, 1971 of funds held overseas without exchange control permission by residents would be free of both income tax and exchange control inquiries. The certificate rate of exchange would not be applicable to the foreign exchange surrendered. Subsequently, however, it was decided that such exchange would qualify for exchange certificates. October 27. It was announced that Ceylonese nation- als employed abroad and remitting funds to Ceylon would be able to convert these at the certificate rate and have the rupee proceeds credited to special CEYLON accounts which would be exempt from income tax. The arrangement came into force on February 6, 1971. October 30. Exporters were required to arrange for bills of lading for commercial exports to be made out only to the order of an authorized dealer in Ceylon, for delivery of such documents direct by the shipping agent. Perishable goods and shipments of the Govern- ment of Ceylon were exempt. November 1. All applications for export of crepe rubber required the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. December 1. All special facilities granted to sterling plantation companies for the export of tea to London auctions were withdrawn. The export proceeds became subject to the normal collection and surrender require- ments, i.e., the proceeds of sale had to be remitted to Ceylon within ten days of receipt by the principal from the broker but not later than four months from the date of export from Ceylon. December 23. Banks were instructed to refer to the Exchange Controller for his prior approval all applica- tions for remittances of dividends declared for an accounting year ending in 1971 to nonresident share- holders in public limited liability companies registered in Ceylon. The requirement also applied to the credit- ing of nonresident accounts of shareholders with such dividends. December 24. The State Trading Corporations Act was passed. It empowered the Government to establish corporations for the purpose of engaging in import and export trade and in the domestic distribution of goods, whether wholesale or retail. (In January 1971, the Sri Lanka State Trading (General) Corporation was formed by Act of Parliament No. 33/1970 to engage, eventually as a monopoly, in the import of hardware, base metals, tires and tubes, automobile spare parts, raw materials and packaging materials for industrial use, drugs and Pharmaceuticals, and building materials. The corporation also is authorized to engage in export trade. Lanka Salu Sala was renamed Sri Lanka Trading Corporation (Textiles) and the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment was renamed Sri Lanka Trading Corpo- ration (Subsidiary Foods). On March 9, 1971, legisla- tion for the establishment of a state-owned shipping firm, the Ceylon Shipping Corporation, was passed.) 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been es- tablished with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Chadian agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Chad take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for other curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Chad itself, are con- sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward di- rect investment; it also issues import and export au- thorizations for gold. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transporta- tion, who has largely delegated his approval authority to the Directorate-General mentioned above and to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy, Fi- nance, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an aThe CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Cen- trale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 82 Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the U. S. S. R. are made through special accounts estab- lished in accordance with a payments agreement. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market—or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited.2 Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of for- eign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Chadian Committee. The import program contains global quotas for im- ports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive ad- vantages. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Specified imports from neighboring countries not be- longing to the French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transac- tions. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are sub- mitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for 2 With effect from January 1, 1971, BCEAEC banknotes could again be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs maintained by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks, provided that the notes were mailed direct to the BCEAEC agency in Chad by the correspondent banks concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports from foreign countries is only permitted for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Pub- lic Accounts. the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles CHAD Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when bona fide. For tourist travel, resi- dents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Chad must be surrendered. For business travel to for- eign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 300,000 a person a trip; the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts may issue exceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into foreign currency BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of payments that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export pro- ceeds normally must be received within 180 days after Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for- eign currency surrendered, w i th in two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other for- eign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capi- tal t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lend- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments ab road3 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD profits; the full or partial liquidation of such invest- ments also requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been ap- proved as constituting the making of a direct invest- investments in C h a d4 ment abroad. Foreign direct require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in Chad must also be de- clared to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- 4 Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 84 lion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be ^declared to the Min- ister of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, pro- vided, however, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci- fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commis- sion. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commis- sion, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued a gold coin of CFAF 10,000 which is legal tender. Ordinance No. 3 /PR /TP of February 10, 1968 (ratified by Law No. 23 of June 4, 1968), in conjunction with the relevant exchange control regula- tions, governs the holding, sale, import, circulation, ex- port, and processing of gold and diamonds. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless they have obtained an authorization issued by the President on the advice of the Minister of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Directo- rate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Exports of unworked gold and of diamonds are usually made by approved Offices for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAVIE). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration, Changes during 1970 May 25. A gold coin with a face value of CFAF 10,000 was issued, which was legal tender. CHAD 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the Banco del Estado, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or enti- ties authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either market. In principle, the rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates, but in practice the rates are set by the Central Bank and have been adjusted from time to time.1 Outward transfers through both markets are controlled. Through the banking market pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large mining companies, receipts from a few invisibles, and pay- ments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and most capital transactions pass through the brokers' market. In general, capital trans- actions are entitled to the same exchange market treat- ment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Transactions in the banking market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for imports of most commodities, forward exchange pur- chases are mandatory and export proceeds may be sold forward. For both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. There is some restriction on the availability of exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (56 days on December 31, 1970). On December 31, 1970, the exchange rate in the banking market was E° 12.21 buying, and E° 12.23 selling, per US$1; the rate in the brokers' market was E° 14.33 buying, and E° 14.35 selling, per US$1. Pur- chases of exchange in the brokers' market by nonbanks for payments and remittances that may be effected without specific authorization (in the form of a solid- tud de giro) by the Central Bank are subject to a 15.15 per cent exchange t a x ;2 this tax is also applied 1 The periodic adjustments were discontinued after July 28, 1970. 2 Increased in most cases to 33.15 per cent (30 per cent plus 3 per cent plus 0.15 per cent) on March 9, 1971. Certain payments and remittances previously subject to the 15 per cent tax (plus 0.15 per cent) were from March 12, 1971 subject to certain additional taxes imposed by virtue of Law No. 17416. 86 to the retransfer of all foreign capital and to the inter- est and profits thereon. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances subject to prior author- ization are subject to an exchange tax of 0.15 per cent. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of International Transactions of the Central Bank of Chile are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Copper Corporation, which is super- vised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Imports for the public sector are supervised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Public Sector, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper compa- nies must be received in U. S. dollars or other curren- cies specifically authorized by the Copper Corporation; these companies must pay their taxes and cover the local costs of their production in U. S. dollars. Settle- ments with Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Mexico, Par- aguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. All other transac- tions with other countries may be settled in any cur- rency, provided that import payments are made in the currency of the contract, irrespective of the country of origin of the goods. Certain payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports, except those of the large mining compa- nies and imports of defense materials, must be regis- tered with the Central Bank. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported (for some of these goods) through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless on Chile's National List negotiated within LAFTA, when such goods may be imported from within the area. Certain other commodities may be considered as effec- tively prohibited for private importation since, although on the List of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent unless they are imported by public sector agencies, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are on the National List and originate in a LAFTA country; the Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may grant specific exemptions. Goods not on the permitted list may freely be imported by private persons, provided that the value of each shipment does not exceed US$100 (Decree No. 681 of September 2, 1965 and C. B. Circular No. 1234 of August 22, 1969). Goods may normally be imported in any amount. The Central Bank, however, is empowered to reject import applications (registrations), except those for goods covered by special laws, for any item on the permitted list if the total value of applications for imports in the previous mon th exceeds by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject registration for all commodities listed under the same customs tariff heading. This power has not been invoked since Janu- ary 1966. Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first proc- essed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may not purchase exchange un t il the goods have been shipped. For specified commodities, importers must, within 50 days a f ter shipment, purchase forward exchange corresponding to the full registered value of the import against immed ia te cash payment in local currency; this requirement now applies to about 80 per cent of pr iva te sector imports. For supplementary lists of imports there are extended mandatory exchange cover periods of 120, 240, and 360 days. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is per- mitted for a few commercial invisibles; all other invisi- bles are settled through the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to fares; all limits 3 are per person per journey, with a 30-day waiting period between trips; the allocations for children under seven are half the amounts listed below and all allocations are subject to tax at a rate of 15.15 per cent) the equivalent of US$100 for travel to destinations w i th in 500 kilometers of the Chilean border, subject to a max imum of US$25 CHILE a day; the equivalent of US$300 for travel to other parts of Latin America (defined as including the Bahama Islands, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico), with a maximum of US$30 a day; the equivalent of US$480 for travel to Canada and the United States, with a maximum of US$30 a day; the equivalent of US$720 for travel to countries outside the Western Hemisphere, with a maximum of US$30 a day; for family remittances US$100 a month for each bene- ficiary, with an annual maximum of US$600 per bene- ficiary; for purchases of books US$50 a person a month; for subscriptions to periodicals US$200 a person a year; and for student registration fees US$50 a person a year. Banks may sell up to US$1,200 a person a year for pay- ment of insurance premiums contracted prior to No- vember 20, 1970 in foreign currency with national in- surance companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. Transfers of other insurance premiums require the approval of the Central Bank, which acts on the advice of the Superintendent of Insurance. Pay- ments for medicine and pharmaceutical products may only be made provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those in respect of other transactions, require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. All pur- chases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a transfer application (solicitud de giro), are subject to a tax of 15.15 per c e n t ;4 the only documentation required for such invisibles that are neither covered by the approval authority delegated to authorized banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an application form (carta petition) addressed to the Cen tral Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean na t iona l i ty and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 360 a trip. Resident travelers may take out 20 per cent of their travel allocation in Chilean banknotes. The export of Chilean banknotes by nonresident travelers is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian reasons, exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South Africa also are prohib- ited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destination. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports other than those of the large m in ing companies are subject to surrender require- «Up to 20 per cent of the relevant amount may be sold in foreign banknotes, the rest in negotiable instruments. 4 See footnote 2 for changes that came into effect in March 1971. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE ments. The large mining companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements to cover costs of production and tax liabilities. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank; other proceeds may be sold forward between 60 days before shipment and 10 days before expiration of the obligatory surrender period. By virtue of Law No. 16528 of 1966, many minor exports receive refunds of taxes and other charges included in their cost of production; these refunds amount to up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of such exports, depending on the product. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communica- tions agencies fees, from specified transactions by national insurance companies, from commissions, from reimbursements of insurance claims, and from credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking market. Exchange received in payment for personal services rendered by residents must be surrendered at the brokers' market rate; how- ever, foreign nationals who have been resident in Chile less than two years may retain 50 per cent of such remittances in foreign currency accounts with the Banco del Estado. Exchange derived from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained.5 Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange market; no capital can flow out freely through either market. Normally, capital is subject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry; this policy applies also to remittances of divi- dends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d ifferent arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment.6 (1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely in the brokers' market through 5 On Janua ry 19, 1971 the delivery by banks to residents of fore ign exchange transferred from abroad became subject to prior Central Bank authorization. • With effect from January 18, 1971, all new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks required prior approval by the Central Bank. 88 authorized banks when the investor (individual or cor- poration, national or foreign) has registered with the Central Bank. Such capital may only be repatriated through the brokers' market with the prior approval of the Central Bank given on a carta petition. The same is true for the transfer of interest and profits on such capital. All capital repatriation under Article 14 of the above Decree is therefore subject to the 15.15 per cent exchange tax.7 Repatriation is only allowed in accord- ance with the amortization schedule established upon registration. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agreement with a Chilean individual or corporation, or into an agreement with a national enterprise with a view to capital partici- pation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the banking market and the brokers' market; the Central Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an applica- tion and extension of Article 16, the Executive Com- mittee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to fur- ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promo- tion of exports of agricultural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking market, pro- vided that the amount repatriated is financed from the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the investment. The regime is implemented through individ- ual investment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years after entry and may amount to 12% per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remit- tance of interest or profits is permitted annually up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of cap- ital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the transfer of the full amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the banking market to acquire abroad any machinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash pay- ment basis. In a further extension of the regime under 7 See footnote 2, above. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Article 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank an- nounced that it would guarantee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earnings on, imported capital, provided that certain conditions were met. These were that (a) the investment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repatria- tion must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumulative basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which estab- lishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee studies the proposal and the Ministry of Economy approves by decree the particular investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption from payment of certain import surcharges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (normally the banking market) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export proceeds of his investment. Gold Chile has issued four gold coins, which are legal tender. Newly mined gold is purchased from the pro- ducers at an average price equivalent to US$42 an ounce by ENAMI (Empresa Nacional de Mineria), which, after refining, sells it at US$35 an ounce to the Central Bank. The latter has this gold coined at the Mint. The Central Bank makes gold available to industrial users in the form of Chilean gold coins at the equivalent of US$50.97 per ounce. The Central Bank has exclusive power to purchase, sell, negotiate, or transfer gold in any form for any purpose, except in the form of jewelry. All import and export of gold contained in minerals is subject to special authorization by the Central Bank. Gold bars are imported and exported only by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire for industrial use is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement; the import of gold coins is not normally permitted. Changes during 1970 The comprehensive program of import liberalization begun in 1969 was continued in the first half of 1970. CHILE All prior import deposit requirements were abolished except that of 10,000 per cent, and the list of permit- ted imports was fur ther extended. The forward delivery period for foreign exchange to cover import payments was reduced from 68 days to 56 days. In the second half of the year, the policy of periodic exchange rate adjustments was discontinued. Most of the limits on exchange allocations for travel expenditure and other payments for invisibles were lowered, devices to discour- age capital flight were introduced, certain capital pay- ments became subject to prior authorization, and the surrender of certain receipts from invisibles became mandatory. January 1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances subject to prior authorization, and all sales of exchange in the brokers' market, became subject to a tax of 0.15 per cent (Law No. 17250 and Circular No. 930 of the Superintendent of Banks). January 1. Law No. 17267 of December 23, 1969 increased the special tax on purchases of exchange from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. As a result, and taking into account the new 0.15 per cent tax intro- duced on January 1, the tax on purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances that could be made without specific Central Bank authorization (in the form of a solidtud de giro) was increased from 10 per cent to 15.15 per cent (i.e., 15 per cent plus 0.15 per cen t ). January 6. A Presidential Decree provided for the gradual elimination of virtually all import restrictions. January 9. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' market were depreciated from E° 9.98 to E° 10.18 and from E ° 11.52 to E ° 11.75, respectively, per US$1. January 22. Exporters of unrefined copper were granted access to the brokers' market, by means of a solicitud de giro, for the purchase of foreign exchange to be used in payment of the export tax established in Article 134 of Law No. 15.575 of May 15, 1964. January 22. The Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank issued rules for paying commissions for activities connected with foreign trade. January 29. A wide range of goods were added to the permitted import list; they were exempt from advance import deposit requirements. January 30. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E° 10.28 and E° 11.90, respectively, per US$1. February 12. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 10.48 and E° 11.90, respectively, per US$1. February 18. All products of the automobile industry became ineligible for preshipment export credits. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE February 27. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 10.65 and E° 12.35, respectively, per US$1. February 27. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced from 68 days to 67 days. March 2. A range of goods were added to the per- mitted import list and were exempt from advance deposit requirements. March 11. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E° 10.83 and E ° 12.60, respectively, per US$1. March 11. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 66 days. March 12. Many items on the list of permitted imports became exempt from advance deposit require- ments. March 26. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 11.03 and E° 12.85, respectively, per US$1. March 26. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 65 days. April. Four gold coins were issued, which were legal tender. April 15. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E° 11.23 and E° 13.10, respectively, per US$1. May 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 11.43 and E° 13.35, respectively, per US$1. May 7. The extraordinary credit under the reciprocal credit agreement with the Central Bank of Argentina was extended until December 31, 1970. May 13. Foreign currency capital imports falling under Article 14 of Decree No. 1272 which were con- verted into domestic currency after May 14, 1970 had to remain in the country for a minimum period of 18 months (previously 12 months) in order to be exempt from the 15.15 per cent remittance tax upon repatria- tion. May 73. A large number of goods on the list of per- mitted imports became exempt from advance deposit requirements. May 18. The advance deposit requirement for all items on the list of permitted imports previously sub- ject to a 15 per cent deposit was revoked. May 27. Central Bank Circular No. 1379 revised its decisions of May 8, 1963 and May 16, 1963 concern- ing gold transactions. The exclusive power of the Cen- tral Bank of Chile to purchase, sell, negotiate, or trans- fer gold coins or gold bars for any purpose was extended to include gold in coin blanks or in any other form of metal or fine gold, except in jewelry. Pre- 90 viously, the import of gold coins and the import for industrial use of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire was free of quantitative restrictions. May 27. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E° 11.63 and E° 13.60, respectively, per US$1. June 3. The Central Bank announced that it would henceforth in all duly justified cases authorize the sale of exchange in the brokers' market for travel and med- icines in excess of the established quotas. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange for monthly family assistance available without prior Central Bank authori- zation was raised from US$200 to US$250 a person. The quota of US$100 a person a month for the pur- chase of books could be accumulated for three months before being used. June 11. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E° 11.83 and E° 13.85, respectively, per US$1. June 18. A number of items were added to the list of permitted imports; they were exempt from advance deposits. July 6. A large range of imports originating in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, or Peru were exempted from advance deposit requirements. July 7. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 12.03 and E° 14.10, respectively, per US$1. July 23. The operational rules for the issue of tax drawback certificates for certain exports were revised. July 28. The selling rates in the banking and bro- kers' markets were depreciated to E ° 12.23 and E° 14.35, respectively, per US$1. There were no fur- ther adjustments in 1970. July 29. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced from 65 days to 56 days. There were no further reductions in 1970. July 30. All advance import deposit requirements, except the 10,000 per cent category, were eliminated. August 12. Decree No. 1821 modified the applica- tion of Article 2 of Law No. 14824 concerning imports into Arica. Only specified classes of goods remained exempt from import duties and taxes when imported into Arica for local use. The freedom to import into Arica any commodity not on the permitted list was maintained, however. The Central Bank later issued Circulars Nos. 1448 and 1465 regarding requirements that importers in Arica had to meet. August 18. Decree No. 741 added a wide range of goods to the list of permitted imports. As a result, vir- tually the only items not on the list were automobiles, television and radio receivers, cigarettes, gems, jewelry, spirits, carpets, and toys. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 7. The Central Bank announced that it would no longer authorize sales of exchange to travel- ers in excess of the established limits (see June 3, above). A 50 per cent tax was introduced by Decree No. 2030 on amounts of exchange in excess of these limits to be sold under pending authorizations. September 7. The Central Bank indicated informally to the commercial banks that all sales of exchange for repatriation of capital under Article 14 of Decree-Law No. 1272 of September 7, 1962 would henceforth require Central Bank authorization in the form of a solicitud de giro, irrespective of the period during which the capital had remained in the country. A side effect of this measure was to exempt all capital repatriation from payment of the 15 per cent remittance tax. Pre- viously, authorized banks could freely sell foreign exchange in the brokers' market for such repatriation, provided that the inflow had been registered with the Central Bank. September 21. The reciprocal lines of credit with the Central Bank of Brazil were extended to September 10, 1972. September 25. Copper exported in processed or semi- processed form became eligible for forward sales of exchange to the Central Bank. October 1. Twenty-one items were added to the list of permitted imports and six items were removed from it. October 1. Residents could not make additional pur- chases of foreign exchange for travel unless 30 days had elapsed since the date of the last purchase. Exemptions could be granted in duly justified cases. October 16. The limits on the sale of exchange for travel (a person a trip every 30 days) were reduced from US$100 to US$50 for travel within 500 kilo- meters of the Chilean border; from US$360 to US$150 (US$200 for Mexico) for travel in other parts of Latin America; and from US$720 to US$200 for travel to Florida in the United States. The limits on the sale of exchange for other purposes remained unchanged. October 19. The travel allocations, which previously had been available irrespective of the traveler's age, were reduced by 50 per cent for children under seven. October 21. A limit of US$150 (a person a trip every 30 days) on the sale of foreign exchange for travel to the Bahama Islands was set; previously, the standard allocation of US$720 applicable to travel out- side Latin America had been available. October 30. Law No. 17382 established a tax of 8 per cent on the customs value of goods imported through Chiloe. The law also created new import privi- leges for the provinces of Chiloe, Aysen, and Maga- llanes. The law came into force on January 1, 1971. October 31. Law No. 17389 permitted imports into Africa, free of advance deposits and provided that no CHILE payment in foreign exchange took place, of prohibited imports up to US$100 (c.i.f.), when made by private persons who had been resident in the Department for at least three years. Each person was allowed two such shipments a year, subject to a single tax of 25 per cent. November 12. A number of items were added to the list of permitted imports. November 19. The prohibition on direct or indirect trade with Cuba was revoked. November 20. The Central Bank terminated the system introduced on June 26, 1967 whereby importers entering into forward exchange contracts at the time of import registration could at maturity obtain exchange which was cheaper by an amount equivalent to 5 per cent interest for the duration of the forward contract. November 20. The Central Bank revised the limits on the sale of exchange not requiring its prior authori- zation. The exchange allocation for travel to destina- tions within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border was raised to US$100, with a maximum of US$25 a day; the allocation for travel to other parts of Latin Amer- ica (defined as including the Bahama Islands, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico) was raised to US$300, with a maximum of US$30 a day. The allocation for travel to the United States and Canada was reduced from US$720 to US$480, with a maximum of US$30 a day. The allocation for countries outside the Western Hemi- sphere remained at US$720, but also became subject to a limit of US$30 a day. All travel allocations were on a per adult per journey basis; however, travelers had to wait 30 days between trips before taking up another allocation, unless the nature of the trip justified an exemption from this rule. The exchange allocation for family maintenance was reduced from US$250 to US$100 a month for each beneficiary, with an annual maximum of US$600 for each beneficiary. The alloca- tion for purchases of books was reduced to US$50 a person a month and could no longer be accumulated for three months. The allocations for subscriptions to periodicals and for student registration fees remained at US$200 and US$50, respectively, a person a year. The allocation for purchases of medicines was reduced from US$100 to US$50 a person a month. Banks could sell up to US$1,200 a person a year for the purpose of pay- ing insurance premiums contracted prior to November 20, 1970 in foreign currency with national insur- ance companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile; for all other exchange allocations for payments of insurance premiums the approval of the Superintendency of Insurance was required. The export of Chilean banknotes by resident travel- ers was limited to 20 per cent of their travel allocation. No provision was made for exports of Chilean bank- notes by nonresident travelers, and such exports were de facto prohibited. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE November 27. The Ministry of Finance announced that the private banks and the largest copper mines would be nationalized. State enterprises would be placed in charge of imports of food, raw materials, and manufactured goods. The State would centralize all future foreign borrowing and control all future foreign investment. The escudo would no longer be periodically depreciated. Exchange controls would be reinforced and additional facilities would be created for exporters. December 2. The Central Bank made all capital repatriation under Article 14 of Decree-Law 1272 of September 7, 1962 subject to prior authorization in the form of a carta petition. As a result, all capital repatri- ations under Article 14, irrespective of the period during which the capital had remained in the country, became subject to the remittance tax of 15 per cent. Repatriation would only be allowed in accordance with the time schedule established upon registration. December 3. An advance import deposit of 10,000 per cent was required for refined sugar, cigars, pipe tobacco, tinplate, commerical aviation aircraft, and cer- tain rayon yarn and fiber. December 10. Circular No. 956 of the Superintend- ent of Banks prohibited the opening of letters of credit for imports of books and periodicals. December 11. Central Bank Circular No. 1463 made merchant ships, fishing vessels, and navigation equip- ment subject to a 10,000 per cent advance import deposit. December 14. With effect from January 1, 1971, contracts denominated in foreign currencies for per- sonal services rendered by Chilean nationals or by for- eign nationals who had been in Chile for a cumulative period of more than two years had to be paid in escu- dos at the brokers' market rate. Foreign nationals who had been resident in Chile less than two years could receive remuneration in foreign currency, provided that the beneficiary sold in the brokers' market each month 50 per cent of his receipts and provided that the for- eign currency was deposited with the Banco del Estado; such deposits could only be used to make remittances abroad or to sell foreign exchange in the brokers' market. The Central Bank was authorized to grant exemptions. This regulation was complementary to Law No. 15192. December 28. Central Bank Circular No. 1471 established that no automobiles valued at over US$2,500 (c.i.f.) could be imported for private use. December 29. Central Bank Circular No. 1473 established that, in addition to the large copper mining companies, any other company entitled to the privilege of partial surrender of its export proceeds was debarred from access to the banking futures market for the partial sale of its proceeds. Consequently, they all had to cover their local currency requirements by spot sales of foreign currency in the banking market. December 30. Plans for the rationalization of the automobile industry were announced. All production would be concentrated in three companies, each with government participation. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0222168 gram of fine gold per New Taiwan Dollar or NT$1 = US$0.025. The official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar are NT$40.00 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed, on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the par values of the currencies concerned.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially fixed may be accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the for- eign market quotations.2 With certain exceptions, earn- ers of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. There is no exchange market. The commercial banks cover their exchange business at the end of each day with the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies con- cerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the Minis- tries of Finance and Economic Affairs and the Central Bank of China. The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The For- eign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China is responsible for the overall management of for- eign exchange, for the determination of the official buy ing and selling rates of exchange, and for the super- vision of the authorized banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Eco- nomic A f fa i rs coordinates industrial and trade policies, including those relating to the import regime and export promotion, and is in charge of the issuance of import licenses. By delegation, the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses. Export applications are screened, and export permits issued, by the Bank of China, the Bank of Communications, the Farmers' Bank of China, the Bank of Taiwan, and the Central Trust of China. Most foreign exchange transactions are conducted through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dol- lars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dol- lars, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 An official conversion rate of ¥ 10 = NT$1 exists for Japanese banknotes; it is applied only at Taipei airport. Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U. S. dollars.3 Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance investments in the Republic of China. The cur- rency and method for making payments to residents of foreign countries are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresi- dents. As a consequence, persons who would be consid- ered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially different f rom that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of for- eign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U. S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances from abroad or of money orders drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to For- eign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Accounts may be withdrawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buy ing rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be w i thd rawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments * Most imports require individual licenses. For vir- tually all commodities subject to license, license appli- cations are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. Appointed banks have author- ity to screen import applications for certain daily necessities and to make the necessary foreign exchange 3 However, certain exports to Viet-Nam are settled under tied let- ters of credit in U. S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports from the United States other than agricultural surplus com- modities. 4 Special regulations apply to imports into the Kaohsiung export processing zone. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA available; these goods do not require an import license. Imports normally must be settled on a sight letter of credit basis. Exchange settlement corresponding to 25 per cent of the f.o.b. or c. & f. value of imports (20 per cent for raw cotton financed under the U. S. P. L. 480 program) must be made within 28 days of approval of the license for all imports not taking place on a deferred payment or consignment basis, i.e., for all imports under letter of credit. Provided that the foregoing requirement of a so-called performance deposit has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from mainland China; for similar reasons, cer- tain commodities are not permitted to be imported from Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities which still can be financed with U. S. aid funds (including P.L. 480 funds) can be imported only from the United States. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohib- ited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohib- ited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries from importa- tion but also a wide range of pharmaceuticals and a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domestic distribution of these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxury items,5 certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in sufficient quantity to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 10 per cent higher than the landed, duty-paid prices of comparable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictively;6 goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be made by both end-users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to facto- ries and end-users. Of 11,575 classified import items, 209 are prohibited, 4,127 are controlled, and 7,239 are permissible. 5 These include such items as made-up clothing, processed foods (dairy products excepted), and consumer durables. ' Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities financed by external sources, e.g., hotels financed by overseas funds. 94 Special regulations apply to 13 commodities nor- mally imported in bulk shipments and imports of which exceed 40,000 metric tons a year.7 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese-flag vessels for their importation. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of import- ers: government trading agencies, qualified private trad- ers, and end-users and manufacturers. Commercial imports handled by government trading agencies include chemical fertilizers, tinplate, crude oil, and automobiles. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for gov- ernment and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Govern- ment, some local industries, and certain other custom- ers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("regis- tered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the Board of Foreign Trade and be registered by the Taiwan Provincial Department of Reconstruction or the Reconstruction Department of Taipei City; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$200,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$50,000 for the last two years. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign suppliers. They also must be approved by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equip- ment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the production of plywood). In certain manufactur- ing industries, a stipulated minimum ratio of the value of the manufactured product must be met by use of domestic resources. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official 7 Soybeans, wheat, corn, rapeseed, raw cotton, two types of artifi- cial fertilizer, iron ore, bauxite, phosphate rock, sulphur, gypsum, and logs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U. S. P. L. 480 program and (b) those paid for with self- provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempt from the surrender requirement. With the exception of machinery and equipment imported by a productive enterprise for its own use, imports from all sources are subject to an import sur- charge equivalent to 30 per cent of the applicable customs duty, depending on the commodity; this sur- charge is 20 per cent on raw materials imported for processing for export, and is refunded upon exporta- tion. In addition to the 30 per cent surcharge, many raw materials imported for domestic use rather than export processing are also subject to an additional surcharge of 30 per cent of trje applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank of China. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Residents may at any time make outward transfers up to the equivalent of US$50 for any purpose other than .import payments, types of transfer that are subject to quota or percentage ceiling, or the accumulation of funds abroad; applications for such personal remittances are approved automatically.8 Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (bonuses, profit shares, overtime pay, and insurance payments are excluded); remittances of larger amounts require special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational insti- tutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news serv- ices, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are approved up to certain limits. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, REPUBLIC OF CHINA imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of foreign entertain- ers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses and investment in the Republic of China. The full amount of tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of stu- dents studying abroad may be remitted. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip (US$150 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$700 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on their merits. Residents leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$ 1,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins and the equivalent of US$400 in for- eign currencies. Nonresident travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency upon sub- mission of the foreign exchange memorandum evidenc- ing their acquisition of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds 9 All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to noncommunist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms. The export of a few foodstuffs also is restricted. There are ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Federal Republic of Germany. Floor prices are established for exports of canned pine- apple and citronella oil.10 The Board of Foreign Trade is empowered to authorize exports at prices below the floor price. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the pro- cessed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, defense surcharge on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the pro- duction of goods for export, provided that the taxpay- 8 On January 21, 1971 this facility was increased to US$100 for each remittance, but the number of transfers allowed each resident hence- forth was limited to four applications a year; previously, any number of applications could be made in a year. 9 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from Kaohsiung export processing zone. 10 Floor prices for both items were abolished on January 26, 1971. the 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA ers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to sur- render exchange earnings accruing from exports imme- diately after their collection. Most exports to any per- mitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leav- ing the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Under the rules laid down in 1956 to promote industrial exports, export manufacturers may register part of the foreign exchange derived from processed exports with the Board of Foreign Trade. Foreign exchange thus registered may be used for the import of raw materials, supplies, and machinery and equipment needed by the industry concerned; the exchange may not be transferred to other persons or firms. The regis- tered foreign exchange scheme entitles manufacturers to import for their own use, through a more convenient procedure, commodities on the controlled list, and on rare occasions commodities on the prohibited import list. The scheme is also extended to domestic producers of raw materials required by the same export process- ing industries.11 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro- ceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors out- side the country, and originally approved by the Cen- tral Bank of China, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings from private investments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittances may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$ 1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the For- eign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, as amended in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Invest- ment,12 enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new for- eign investments approved by the authorities are guar- anteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capi- tal in its original form; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) com- pensation for expropriation where the foreign invest- ment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the for- eign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Pur- chases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufactured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Port- folio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not normally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and foreign persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. 11 The registered foreign exchange system was abolished on January 1, 1971. 12 This Statute expired on December 31, 1970 and was revised on January 1, 1971. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and so forth, are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form, but they may sell it only to the Central Bank of China, at the official price of NT$448.00 per 10 grams of fine gold (equiva- lent to US$35 per troy ounce). They may not use it as collateral for loans. Producers of gold must surrender their output to the Central Trust of China to have its fineness reduced to 0.875. Gold of this fineness is then auctioned to registered goldsmiths,13 who are permit- ted to sell only ornamental gold of a fineness less than 0.875. Gold not disposed of by auction is transferred to the Central Bank at the above official price. Travel- ers may bring in any amount of gold. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih liang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Changes during 1970 January 1. The interest rates on foreign currency time deposits were increased. They were reduced on February 1, 1971. January 22. The amount of foreign currency bank- notes and coins which resident travelers were permitted to take out of the country was raised from the equiva- lent of US$200 to US$400. The conversion of local currency into foreign currency by departing nonresi- dent travelers ceased to be limited to the equivalent of US$200. February 4. Chassis for automobiles weighing 31/* tons or less were shifted from the Permissible Import List to the Controlled Import List. April 9. An additional import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty was imposed on most raw materials. May 1. Residents were permitted to make outward remittances up to US$50 at any time for any purpose (other than import payments, the accumulation of bal- ances abroad, or transfers subject to special limitation). May 21. Exports of Chinese books and periodicals were exempted from the requirements for exchange set- tlement. May 28. Guidelines for the acceleration of China's industrial development were approved by the Cabinet. Priorities were established for the types of inward direct investment to be approved in fu tu re which involved a tightening of the existing approval criteria. 13 At a floor price of NT$1,570 per 1.00471 ounces of 87.5 per cent fineness gold, equivalent to US$44.60 per troy ounce of 99.9 fineness. REPUBLIC OF CHINA June 2. The official quotation for the Canadian dollar was suspended. June 30. Some 116 items were shifted from the Con- trolled Import List to the Permissible Import List. In following months, additional items were shifted in the same manner. July 1. The 3 per cent export surcharge on bananas, mushrooms, and asparagus was eliminated. July 16. Measures for the promotion of foreign trade were approved by the Cabinet. A semiofficial trading company and joint government and private export asso- ciations would be set up; the Government would sim- plify export and import procedures and help domestic industries to improve the quality of their products; the scope of export insurance would be expanded and cus- toms procedures simplified. The nation's shipping serv- ice would be strengthened. July 23. The Government announced the abolition of the transferability of exchange entitlements under the registered foreign exchange scheme, retroactive to July 1. July 24. Private factories were permitted to import machinery and equipment on a D/P or D/A basis (pre- viously, they could import only industrial raw materials on D/P or D/A te rms ). Registered importers were allowed to import chemicals and machinery on a D/P basis (previously, only end-users could import such items on D/P or D/A terms). September 1. Simplified procedures were introduced for applications for foreign exchange to effect install- ment payments for imports purchased on deferred pay- ment terms. September 3. Legislation was enacted governing the exploration and drilling for oil and gas in China's terri- torial waters and the adjacent continental shelf. September 4. An initial par value of NT$1 = US$0.025 was established. No depreciation or apprecia- tion was involved. September 13. A m in imum deposit of 10 per cent was required when opening postdated letters of credit for imports. September 13. Inward remittances of revolving funds for industrial and mining enterprises were no longer permitted. October 12. The appointed banks were permitted to screen import applications for certain consumer goods (such as dairy produce, canned and preserved food, biscuits, watches, and clocks) without submission of import license applications to the Board of Foreign Trade by the importers concerned; they were also per- m i t ted to make available the foreign exchange required to pay for these imports. Previously, most of these commodities were subject to import restrictions, and all required an ind iv idual import license. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA November 1. The period within which exchange set- tlement must take place for imports under letter of credit was lengthened from 14 days to 28 days after approval of the import license. November 20. An amendment to the Regulations Governing the Import of Staple Goods went into effect which provided that purchases of certain staples from abroad were to be entrusted to public and private trade agencies for joint procurement. The amendment was applied to wheat, barley, corn, soybeans, sulphur, and certain other commodities. November 23. The official quotation for the Italian lira was discontinued. December 1. The regulations subjecting the importa- tion of gold for investment, educational purposes, and so forth, to Central Bank approval were revoked. December 31. The US$2,400 limit on the allocation of exchange to students abroad for tuition and living expenses during the first academic year was lifted. December 31. The Statute for Encouragement of Investment expired. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colom- bian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic or the authorized banks in the official market—the exchange certificate market, in which the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1970 the average selling rate in the cer- tificate market was Coi$19.13 per US$1. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the central bank's accounting rate of Col$ 18.50 per US$1; the Govern- ment purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other effective exchange rates. The different exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1970, the fluctuating buying rate for proceeds from coffee exports (after taking into account a 20 per cent exchange tax) was Col$15.27 per US$1, and that for most other exports about Col$21.63 per US$1. All imports are paid for at the certificate market rate. In principle, all payments and receipts in respect of current invisibles and capital also take place at that rate but different effective rates arise from the applica- tion of advance deposit requirements on exchange pur- chased for foreign travel and of advance payments deposits for purchases of exchange for many other pur- poses. A fixed rate of Col$9 per US$1 applies to cer- tain petroleum transactions. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate ruling on the date of issue, exchange warrants (titulos de divisas); the Bank's 1 per mill commission on outward remittances is charged. These warrants, which are expressed in U. S. dollars, are nonnegotiable but may be exchanged, provided that the holder presents an exchange license, for exchange certificates (for the same amount of foreign currency and free of charge); such exchange must take place between 45 and 180 days after the date of issue. Within the period mentioned, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the cer- tificate market buying rate ruling on the date of repur- chase. Warrants held for more than 180 days but less than two years may be resold to the Bank at the cer- tificate market rate ruling 180 days after issue; they become null and void two years after issue. Foreign payments made with certificate exchange that has been acquired against warrants are exempt from the 95 per cent advance payments deposit that must otherwise be lodged for many types of outward transfers. Within the 180-day validity period, warrants may also be used to purchase exchange for travel purposes, free from the normal requirement of a local currency guarantee deposit.1 Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Institute of Foreign Trade (!NCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, certain payments for current transactions, when made by the Bank of the Republic on behalf of credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Grow- ers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council. The Institute of Foreign Trade, through its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concern- ing direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department, which evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and roy- alties for trademarks and patents. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting direct to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces control and supervision over exchange transac- tions and is responsible for applying penalties for vio- lation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international trans- actions are normally effected in U. S. dollars. Settle- ments with Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Rumania for commercial transactions must be made through clearing accounts in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral payments agree- 1 With effect from January 22, 1971 holders of exchange warrants became entitled to interest at a rate of 5 per cent per annum. In March 1971, it was announced that warrants would shortly be issued in the name of the purchaser and would become negotiable. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA merits. The National Federation of Coffee Growers has concluded payments agreements with Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system, and settlements with the Dominican Republic are also made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any for- eign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresi- dents, banks must obtain prior authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and import Payments Imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by the Institute of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely without license. In this last category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries and a National Free List applicable to LAFTA countries only; the latter contains all commodi- ties that are on the global free list as well as some additional ones. These liberalized imports corresponded to about 20 per cent of 1970 reimbursable imports;2 they comprise mainly certain raw materials and some types of machinery. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by the Institute of Foreign Trade to determine whether local substitutes are avail- able. The prohibited list comprises mainly such items as arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, such as corn and milk, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods; imports of certain goods on this list may be licensed from time to time. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Institute of Foreign Trade is required for all imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books and pharmaceuticals). The charge for import registration is Col$ 100.00 (in some cases Col$5.00) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent. Advance import deposits in Colombian cur- rency must be made with the Bank of the Republic 2 The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports financed from Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed with for- eign credit; they include imports under bilateral payments agree- ments. Nonreimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports, com- modities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. 100 before import registration is permitted; the deposit is returned 90 days after the goods have cleared customs. The advance import deposit is payable at one of many rates, depending on the type of goods; those important in practice are the rates of 1, 5, 10, 30, 70, and 130 per cent. The following imports are exempt from prior depos- its: nonreimbursable impor ts ;2 imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (Vallejo P lan); goods included in the Colombian National List and the special lists granting concessions to LAFTA countries; goods financed with credits having a maturity of at least 40 years ;3 noncommercial capital goods and components imported by the Govern- ment, Departments, municipalities, official undertakings, semiofficial bodies, and public service agencies, and non- commercial goods when intended for mineral explora- tion or exploitation; goods imported by the National Federation of Coffee Growers for its own use; goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; capital goods, components, and raw materials imported by firms sponsored and supported by the Government, and firms holding foreign commitments backed by the Gov- ernment; machinery and equipment coming under the tariff headings for the basic industries; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Agricultural Mar- keting (IDEMA); most imports by universities and other nonprofitmaking educational institutions; scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that made a contribution to the culture of the Colombian people, together with capital goods for the production of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month. A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports, except when they are made by the Bank of the Republic on behalf of credit institutions; 4 licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through cus- toms and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equiva- lent to 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calcu- lated at a rate announced monthly by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the average exchange certificate price for the preceding month. Exempt are import pay- ments by the Government, Departments, municipalities, and official agencies, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the 3 Goods so financed that are included in the import free list require an advance deposit of 10 per cent of the deposit payable on the same commodities when not imported under such credits. 4 Also exempt from exchange license are payments related to letters of credit opened for banking institutions in countries with which the Bank of the Republic maintains bilateral payments arrangements or reciprocal credit agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Republic, goods for general consumption imported by the Institute of Agricultural Marketing, payment for the crude oil acquired by the national petroleum com- pany (Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos—ECOPE- TROL) for refining in Colombia, imports financed by U. S. AID credits, imports for which payment is made within 30 days of shipment, and payments made by let- ters of credit charged to the bilateral accounts main- tained with certain European countries. Import duties are calculated at the effective exchange rate applicable to the advance surrender of export pro- ceeds from commodities other than coffee. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to the Export Pro- motion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the National Coffee Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities, goods of LAFTA origin, and imports under the Vallejo Plan. Importers of goods financed by the U. S. AID are required to ship at least 50 per cent of the total volume of shipments on Colombian flag ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to officially established priorities determined by the Monetary Board; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license, and commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also transfer without prior approval the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support. No advance payment deposit is required for invisibles, except for travel allowances, for which a 50 per cent prior deposit in local currency is required unless the foreign exchange is purchased with exchange warrants,5 and for pay- ments of interest on certain loans, for which the pre- scribed deposit is 95 per cent. Payments for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,350 a person a year; this limit may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country; transfers to professionals and technicians undertaking courses abroad are generally restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other students the ceilings vary from US$120 to US$200 a month, 5 The deposit, which is calculated on the basis of the average sell- ing rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, must be made when application is made for the foreign exchange and it is released upon the traveler's return to Colombia, provided that he has stayed abroad the number of days for which he was granted exchange. COLOMBIA depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of Colombian products may be made freely, except when the law provides otherwise. There is a list of exports that are either prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Prior application for registration is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any funds) correspond- ing to the full export value or a bank guarantee (usually for 30 per cent of the same value), to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrendering export pro- ceeds are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registration of the sales contract, if the contract is used with shipping documents inside the country, and within 10 days from the date of the bill of lading if the contract is used with that docu- ment; (2) for banana exports, 60 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 10 days following the regis- tration of the export, and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days after the registration; and (3) for other exports, generally within 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporter of any product to repay old foreign debts incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum products, and cattle hides receive tax credit certificates in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the exchange rate used for import deposits. These cer- tificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices nine months after issuance for the payment of income tax, additional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes. At the end of 1970, certificates just issued were quoted at a discount of about 9.5 per cent; hence the effective exchange rate was about Col$21.63 per US$1. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the bankers' market. The certificates have a validity of 5 days to 10 days, after which they must be surrendered to the cen- tral bank at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. The surrender price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the world market. Coffee exports are subject to the following additional regulations: (1) A minimum surrender price (reinte- gro) is fixed, after deduction for freight and insurance, at US$76.00 6 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 20 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. The Special Exchange Account is credited at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$18.50 per US$1. (3) Exporters must either sur- render in kind to the National Federation of Coffee Growers and without payment the equivalent of 25% per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention) or pay the Federation the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla tax); the tax must be paid, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) A committee composed of the Minis- ters of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes domestic buying prices for the various grades, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. (6) Whenever the domestic support price, net of taxes and freight, exceeds a level corresponding to a spot New York price of US$0.57 a pound, the excess (net of taxes and levies) is shared among producer, Coffee Fund, and local producers' committees at a ratio of 35:30:35; in that event, the retention is to be increased and the proceeds of the increase are paid to the Coffee Fund and the produ- cers' committees. Anticipated export proceeds from coffee may be pro- visionally surrendered in advance of actual surrender (when prefinanced by foreign buyers) provided that the latter takes place within 120 days of the provisional surrender, at a provisional exchange rate of Col$15.50 per US$1.7 Advance surrender of anticipated export proceeds from products other than coffee may be made at the average rate of exchange certificates for the pre- vious month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance, provided that the actual surrender takes place within 12 months of the provisional surrender, or within 24 months if the export value exceeds US$500,000. The payment to the exporter is subse- 6 This price was lowered to US$73.00 on February 12, 1971. 7 This rate was changed from Col$15.50 to Col$19.00 on Janu- ary 20, 1971. 102 quently adjusted for the effective exchange rate applica- ble on the day of actual surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted at the certificate market buying rate. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans,8 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic.9 Capital imports in amounts of US$100,000 or more and capital imported for petroleum exploration or exploitation, or for other mineral exploration, also require prior approval by the National Planning Department in accordance with directives issued by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy; capi- tal for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Minis- try of Mines and Petroleum. Capital registration enti- tles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capi- tal at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Monetary Board Resolution No. 9 of 1968.10 The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (begin- ning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earpings remitted are less than 14 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years, pro- vided that the additional remittances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from advance deposit and import license requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum maturity of 180 days11 and to maximum interest rates of 9 per cent for loans of up to one year's maturity and 9% per cent for loans of longer maturity, but 8 Suppliers' credits do not require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such repayment, however, is subject to the 95 per cent prior deposit. 9 As at the end of 1970, the registration of certain foreign invest- ments and of old contracts involving payment of royalties, commis- sions, trademarks, patents, etc., had not yet been completed. 10 Profits earned before December 31, 1966 may be remitted in full before registration is completed, upon proof of the investment's for- eign origin. 11 On February 3, 1971, the minimum maturity of such loans was increased to one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceptions may be made when contracts provide for the periodic revision of the rate of interest. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks, patents, and similar arrangements must be regis- tered with the Exchange Office to enable the benefici- ary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the principal investment at the prevailing certificate market rate. Exports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally permit- ted. A peso advance deposit corresponding to 95 per cent of the exchange requested is required for repayments of principal and payment of interest on certain private loans and on private suppliers' credits. Cold Physical and juridical persons may trade in Colom- bia in gold coins for collection purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the country at US$35 an ounce and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital mining companies of exchange licen- ses en t i t l ing them to make payments abroad for serv- ices, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to the small Table of Exchange Rates (as of December 31, 1970) COLOMBIA producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Colombian pesos at their nominal value. When the Bank sells newly mined gold abroad at market prices in excess of US$35 an ounce, it reimburses the producer for the difference. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian M in ing Association, on presentation of licenses issued by the Superintendency of Exchange Control, at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold markets during the previous month plus a sales tax of 15 per cent; this price is translated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The Bank's exports of gold are made at world market prices and the excess over its purchase price of US$35 is paid out to the producers who have supplied the gold. Imports of gold also are a monopoly of the Bank of the Repub- lic; imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The assay and refining houses and the mining com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the m in ing companies must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Res- idents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Buying (pesos per U.S. dollar) Selling 9.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned companies in Colombia for domestic refining.16 18.50 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of public debt, diplomatic expenses, etc. 19.13 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All other transactions.17 15.27 (Certificate Market Rate less 20% Exchange Tax. Fluctuating Rate) Coffee exports.12 18.50 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conversion of Government's receipts from exchange tax on coffee exports. 19.09 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude oil and petroleum derivatives (Article 158 of Decree-Law No. 444).13 Exports of cattle hides. Exports from free ports. All receipts from invisibles and capital transfers. 21.90 (Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month plus 15% Tax Credit Certificates, Fluc- tuating Rate) All other exports.12' 14>15 12 Advance surrender of export proceeds may result in different effective rates; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above. 13 Receipts from exports of crude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrendered. 14 Since tax credit certificates traded immediately a f ter issue were quoted at a discount of 9.5 per cent, their value was about 13.6 per cent of the export va lue, mak ing the actual effec t ive rate about Col$21.63 per US$1. 13 The Bank of the Republic purchases gold from domestic produ- cers at a price corresponding to the world market price of gold, cal- culated at Col$21.90 per US$1. 10 This ra te is also used as a computation • rate to determine the price in pesos which ECOPETROL and foreign-owned companies receive for domestic sales of crude petroleum. 17 D ifferent effective rates arise from the application of advance deposit requ iremen ts to sales of exchange for travel purposes and the 95 per cent advance paymen ts deposit required for purchases of exchange for many other purposes. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Changes during 1970 During the year, the advance import deposit require- ments were reduced for about 140 tariff positions rep- resenting some 8.4 per cent of 1969 imports. The import free list was expanded by about 115 tariff items representing some 8.7 per cent of 1969 imports to cover about 25 per cent of reimbursable 1970 imports, and about 75 tariff positions were removed from the prohibited list. Import licensing became more liberal and reimbursable import registrations increased by 23 per cent over the 1969 level. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced in stages from US$83.60 to US$76.00. The selling rate in the certifi- cate exchange market was gradually depreciated from Col$17.93 to Col$19.13 per US$1. January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Uru- guay entered into force. January 2. A reciprocal credit agreement with the Dominican Republic was signed and came into force immediately. January 14. Decree No. 039 established foreign exchange and customs regulations for free trade zones. January 28. The Exchange Office was permitted, when necessary in individual cases, to increase the monthly allowance of US$450 for staff training courses abroad. (Monetary Board Resolution No. 5.) January 29. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was raised from US$83.60 to US$85.00 per 70-kilogram bag (Resolution No. 6). February 18. Resolution No. 10 authorized the Bank of the Republic to increase its foreign currency time deposits with commercial banks in Colombia from 10 per cent to 20 per cent of each bank's short-term liabil- ities payable in foreign currency. March 16. The import free list, comprising about 100 tariff items, was expanded by 51 tariff items, con- sisting mainly of spare parts for automotive vehicles and aircraft, certain industrial raw materials and capital goods, and scientific and medical equipment. The 1969 import value of these items was 5.6 per cent of total reimbursable imports. March 18. Service payments on loans to finance cer- tain investment projects of economic or social impor- tance were exempted from the requirement of the 95 per cent advance payments deposit (Resolution No. 21). March 25. The retention quota for coffee exports was increased from 25 per cent to 25% per cent (Decree No. 457 of March 24). April 1. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices were located were authorized to sell directly to customers without prior approval by an Exchange Office, travel exchange up to the generally applicable 104 limits of US$30 a person a day and US$1,350 a person a year; the 50 per cent local currency deposit had to be collected by the bank selling the foreign exchange. The Exchange Office in Bogota was to determine periodic ceilings for these delegated transactions (Reso- lution No. 19 of March 18). April 7. Thirty-five tariff items were shifted from the prohibited import list to the list of goods subject to import license. April 8. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices were located were authorized without prior approval by an Exchange Office to transfer monthly allowances and certain other payments to students sup- ported by the Colombian Institute for Technical Spe- cialization Abroad. The Exchange Office in Bogota was to determine periodic ceilings for these delegated trans- actions (Resolution No. 24). April 8. The Private Investment Fund was permitted to provide financing for enterprises of a multinational character, subject to the judgment of the Bank of the Republic that national participation was beneficial to Colombia (Resolution No. 25). April 14. All import taxes (other than the consular invoice tax) and all advance import deposits were abol- ished in trade between Colombia and Chile and Peru for goods included in a Common List of 169 tariff items. Similar but shorter lists went into effect for trade with Bolivia and Ecuador (Decree No. 536-bis of April 13). May 13. The Bank of the Republic was authorized by Monetary Board Resolution No. 33 to sell directly or through credit institutions nontransferable exchange warrants (titulos de divisas), which 60 days after issue (but not later than 180 days after issue) could be con- verted into exchange certificates, subject to presentation of an exchange license. Remittances abroad with exchange certificates acquired by conversion of exchange warran ts were exempt from the 95 per cent advance payments deposit. Initially, the Monetary Board authorized the issue of warrants up to US$5 million; later in the year, a further issue of up to US$5 million was authorized. May 27. Resolution No. 37 modified the surrender and registration requirements for coffee exports. The maximum surrender period, however, remained un- changed at 20 days after export registration. June 10. The minimum length of time during which exchange warrants must be held before resale or recon- version into exchange certificates was reduced from 60 to 45 days (Resolution No. 39). June 23. The Bank of the Republic terminated the special financing arrangements that had been introduced in 1967 to facilitate imports from payments agreement countries. (Circular No. 2784.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 7. Decree No. 1095 created industrial and com- mercial free zones in Buenaventura and Palmaseca. August 5. Resolution No. 52 reformulated, with some changes, the surrender requirement for export proceeds (other than those from coffee) and the facili- ties for advance surrender. Export proceeds were to be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic within 90 days from the date of export registration, with minor exceptions, for all commodities other than coffee and bananas. For exports of bananas, 60 per cent of the proceeds were to be surrendered within 10 days of reg- istration and the remainder within 60 days of registra- tion. August 5. Resolution No. 50 authorized the Bank of the Republic to contract the minting of gold coins commemorating the Sixth Pan American Games, up to an amount of 1,200 kilograms of fine gold. The coins were issued on May 10, 1971. August 5. The monthly increase in acceptance cred- its, refinanced credits, and foreign sight credits in the balance sheets of all financial institutions was limited during the period July 31-December 31, 1970 to 1 per cent for each type of credit (Resolution No. 53). August 5. The advance exchange surrenders made by the National Coffee Growers Federation between Sep- tember 28, 1964 and November 25, 1967 henceforth were considered definitely surrendered at the rate of Col$ 15.50 = US$1, insofar as they had not yet been settled (Resolution No. 54). August 26. Special reductions in advance import deposits for certain types of capital goods were abol- ished (Resolution No. 55). August 26. The 95 per cent advance payments deposit ceased to be required for import payments made within 30 days of shipment (Resolution No. 56). August 26. The August 5 limitation on the monthly growth in specified types of credit henceforth was applied only where the combined increase in all these credits, for a single institution, exceeded US$1 million (Resolution No. 57). September 1. The Bank of the Republic was author- ized, without obtaining prior exchange licenses from the Exchange Office, to make payments abroad for a number of important categories of current transactions on behalf of the credit institutions. Each bank would be assigned a monthly exchange budget for these trans- actions. The Bogota Exchange Office would grant the Bank of the Republic an exchange license covering the global amount of these budgets. Banks were obliged to submit documentary evidence of the transactions and to obtain retroactive exchange control approval. The regular advance payments deposits were required (Res- olution No. 58 of August 26). September 2. Resolution No. 61 reissued in consoli- COLOMBIA dated form and without change the principal regula- tions concerning the allocation of foreign exchange for travel purposes. September 9. The Agrarian Marketing Institute was exempted from the advance payments deposit for imports related to goods for general consumption (Res- olution No. 62). September 22. Thirty-nine items were shifted from the prohibited import list to the list of goods subject to import license. (Import Board Resolution No. 22.) September 23. The import free list was increased by 63 tariff items, accounting for 3.1 per cent of total reimbursable imports in 1969. Virtually all types of books were included, as were radios, television receiv- ers, certain office machinery, and certain parts for air- borne and automotive vehicles. October 7. Several categories of current payments were added to those which the Bank of the Republic, without prior exchange license, could make on behalf of the credit institutions (Resolution No. 68). October 14. Letters of credit opened to finance imports by decentralized public enterprises and organi- zations were excluded from the limit on increases in foreign liabilities of financial institutions. October 14. The requirement of an exchange license was eliminated for import payments (and related expenses) under letters of credit of banking institutions established in LAFTA countries with which the Bank of the Republic maintained reciprocal credit agree- ments (Resolution No. 69). October 15. The waiting period before tax credit cer- tificates granted on minor exports could be utilized was reduced from 12 months to 9 months. October 21. The Bank of the Republic was author- ized to make available to the Export Promotion Fund Col $140 million for credit operations in domestic cur- rency; US$7 million for credit operations in foreign currency; and US$4 million for loans to the Agrarian Marketing Institute for the prefinancing of cotton and cattle exports (Resolution No. 73 ). On February 24, 1971, the amount for foreign exchange credits was increased to US$15 million and the terms of the export credits were fixed at ten years maximum maturity and 8 per cent minimum interest rate. October 28. Resolution No. 74 created certain facili- ties for the transfer of pensions and social security pay- ments by persons residing in Colombia but transferring their residence outside the country. November 25. New loans to be taken up abroad after January 1, 1971 became subject to a minimum maturity of 180 days and to maximum interest rates of 8% per cent (previously 10% per cent) for loans of up to one year's maturity or 8% per cent (previously 10% 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA per cent) for loans of longer maturity. (Resolution No. 79.) November 25. Exchange warrants could be used to purchase exchange for travel purposes; travel exchange so acquired was exempt from the 50 per cent local cur- rency deposit. The measure enabled travelers to pur- chase foreign exchange 45 days before departure, at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of purchase. (Resolution No. 80.) November 26. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$85.00 to US$80.00 per 70-kilogram bag. On December 2, it was further reduced to US$76.00. (Resolutions Nos. 81 and 83.) December 16. The maximum interest rates on loans contracted abroad after January 1, 1971 were raised to 9 per cent for loans of up to one year's maturity and 9l/2 per cent for loans with maturities in excess of one year. (Resolution No. 88.) December 16. The accounting rate for the Bank of the Republic's international reserves was changed from Col$17.60 to Col$18.50 per U.S. dollar. (Resolution No. 93.) 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System Imports and Import Payments The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Zaire, or Z 1 = US$2. The National Bank of Congo (the central b a n k) ma in ta ins an official rate of exchange for the Belgian franc based on the rate for the za ire quoted in the official exchange market in Brussels. The buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the Belgian franc are based on the official market rates in Brussels for the zaire and these other currencies. Forward exchange transactions are prohib- ited. Administration of Control The National Bank of Congo has regulatory author- ity over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize pay- men ts and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of the Democratic Republic, and to permit the importa- tion, exportation, and trans it of goods. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts f rom nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currencies may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires and Nonresident For- eign Currency Accounts. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may only be debited for settlements in the Democratic Republic. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment to a nonresident; they may be debited freely for transfers to other Resi- dent and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and to accounts abroad. Nonresident nationals require spe- cial authorization from the National Bank to open these accounts w i th authorized banks; nonresident for- eigners may open them freely. Nonresident Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be freely credited with payments that are transferable abroad and debited for conversion into foreign currency or for any payments in Congo. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammun i t ion, narcotics, and juke boxes. Import licenses are only required for a few goods on a list A (jewelry, precious stones, and precious metals). The National Bank has issued a general import and payments license which for all other goods guarantees the availability of foreign exchange when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declaration with his bank following the actual placing of the order. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made initially to author- ized banks in Kinshasa. Applications are forwarded to the National Bank after certification. After approval of the application by the National Bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks without undue delay and remain valid for customs clearance during a period of six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which vali- dation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is made available for all licensed imports, the va l ida ted license constituting at the same time an exchange license; for payments purposes, the license remains valid as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the Belgian food aid program and the U.S. import support program and the agricul- tural aid program must be deposited within 180 days af ter their shipment. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formu- lated by the National Bank. Certain payments are sub- ject to au thor iza t ion by the National Bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis; the approval authority for other current payments has been delegated to the authorized banks. The Bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports payable on arrival, for insurance on imports. All other payments for services performed by nonresi- dents are in principle authorized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals are freely authorized, pro- vided that at least Z 100 a month is deducted for local living expenses and that all taxes have been paid. Transfers in respect of certain administrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance prem iums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms with foreign capital 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO participation are transferable up to an amount propor- tionate to that participation. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in the Demo- cratic Republic in local currency; for resident foreign nationals, however, the fare must not exceed the price of a return trip by a direct route to the country of their origin. Congolese nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the duration of the journey, up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to individual approval by the National Bank. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic or foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require individual licenses, with the exception of exports covered by the general licenses granted to GECOMIN and METALKAT, the principal mining companies. Banks are normally authorized to grant licenses to exporters who submit a declaration in which they undertake to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the mer- chandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral products, a provisional payment of about 70 per cent of the shipment's estimated value has to be surrendered within 8 days a f ter shipment. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a pre l im inary examination in the Democratic Republic must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds from coffee must be surrendered within 45 days af ter shipment. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of shipment. The export proceeds of GECOMIN must be surrendered to the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. There are no limitations on the import of domestic or fore ign banknotes by travelers. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordi- nance-Law No. 69-032 of June 26, 1969) is guaran- teed, as is the t rans fer of profits and dividends on such capital. W i th m inor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. The sale of real estate located in the Demo- cratic Republic can only be made to the Congolese Government, against payment in zaires; gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by exec- 108 utive ordinance. When the local currency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be transferred in accordance with the terms of contracts that the National Bank has endorsed to guarantee the availability of exchange for such transfers. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permit- ted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign cur- rencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the National Bank; licenses for imports are not nor- mally issued. Producers are required to sell 10 per cent of their production at the official price of US$35 an ounce to the National Bank. Changes during 1970 January 2. All imports were required to be shipped to the order of an authorized bank and the latter had to submit proof of customs entry to the National Bank within 90 days of shipment. January 9. Circular No. 127 provided that the local currency counterpart for imports under the U. S. agri- cultural aid program must be deposited within 180 days (previously 120 days) after shipment. On Janu- ary 29, Circular No. 128 was issued with similar provi- sions in respect of Belgian food aid. January 10. Importers no longer had to make a local currency deposit corresponding to the f.o.b. value of the goods when presenting for validation import licen- ses for goods subject to full or partial payment upon shipment. June 25. Circular No. 129 revoked the import license requirement for goods on List B of Circular No. 124, which had been applicable to certain types of machinery and vehicles only when valued at over Z 10,000. June 25. Circular No. 129 provided that profits and dividends relating to 1969 could be transferred. Rents could also be transferred, provided that all taxes had been paid. June. It was announced that after the end of 1970 foreign firms would no longer be permitted to sell their goods in Congo through intermediaries. Initially, this was applied to automobiles only. July 1. Interest on documentary credits relating to imports on deferred payment terms could be trans- ferred only after submission of an interest statement provided by the bank granting the credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 2. An initial par value for the zaire of Z 1 = US$2 was established. No appreciation or depre- ciation of the currency was involved. November 16. The zaire was officially quoted in Brussels and the National Bank of Congo ceased to maintain a fixed official buying and selling rate of Z 1 = BF 100 for the Belgian franc, November. A new category of nonresident accounts was created, Nonresident Convertible Accounts in Zaires. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of the People's Republic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 free of commis- sion charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. All purchases of foreign cur- rency and all amounts credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission which is payable to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of Congo do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries (except the French Territory of the Afars and Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Congo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrow- ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange con- trol is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the AT he CFA f ranc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. no BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with mainland China are made through special accounts established under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All payments to Portugal require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and the Budget. All settlements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited.3 Imports and Import Payments Imports of virtually all commodities from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports of Portuguese or Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program; the program also includes indicative quotas for a few commodities from EEC countries other than France. This program is deter- mined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). Also outside the program are imports for the Government under foreign aid and bilateral pay- ments agreements and imports made by OFNACOM (Office National du Commerce) or BCCO (Bureau pour la Creation, le Controle et 1'Orientation des Entre- prises et Exploitations d'Etat). The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automatically. Imports of 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with North Korea and Mali. 3 With effect from January 1, 1971, BCEAEC banknotes could again be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs, provided that they were mailed direct to the Brazzaville agency of the BCEAEC by banks abroad that are correspondents of Congolese authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution certain products from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to special ceilings. Fur- thermore, imports of certain products from some low- wage countries of the Far East are limited by a special ceiling. Imports from non-UDEAC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product (jumelage). The National Trading Office has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from mainland China. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from foreign countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to approval. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000 a person a trip (CFAF 75,000 for children under ten), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Congo in excess of CFAF 5,000 must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Additional amounts of foreign exchange for business travel may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than zai're banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000, as well as any foreign means of payment obtained from an authorized bank to the debit of a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Currency Account; they may reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the excep- tion of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all destinations of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cotton, gold, and diamonds are subject to individual license. All other exports are free of individ- ual license. Certain agricultural commodities are exported by an official agency, the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles, or ONCPA). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for- eign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital All capital movements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Congo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO exchange control approval and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on fore ign countries or nonresidents that are held in Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Congo, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments a b r o a d4 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom re inves tment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Congo 5 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing f rom re inves tment of undistributed profits; the M in i s ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts in Congo must also be declared to the M in is ter, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct inves tment in Congo. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by 4 Including those made through the in termed iary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 5 Including those involving the cession between nonresidents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 112 the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Congo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Congo and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the oper- ation. Lending by residents to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any enterprise estab- lished in Congo, whether domestic or foreign, is gran ted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of pref- eren t ial trea tmen t, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national terr i tory of Congo; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the former Equatorial Customs Union ( the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's eco- nomic development; it provides for stabilization of their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment auto- matically includes the application of specified exemp- tions from direct taxes which are granted to all invest- ments in Congo. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is sub- mitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treat- ment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Central African Customs and Economic Union upon the recommenda- tion of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legislation. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265, of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in Congo gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget to hold gold in any other fo rm or to import or export gold in any form from or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC and (2) imports and exports of manu fac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to cus- toms dec la ra t ion. The agency SOGAREM has a mo- nopoly over the export of newly mined gold. Changes during 1970 April 18. Order No. 1273 liberalized imports of g roundnut oil. June 5. Circular No. 068 was issued concerning the dom ic i l ia t ion in exceptional cases w i th an authorized bank in France for imports from and exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. August 24. Circular No. 100 established that author- ized banks could, subject to prior authorization by the Office of Foreign Financial Relations, credit nonresi- dent accounts held by their foreign correspondents with the amount of banknotes issued by the BCEAEC when mailed direct to the BCEAEC. August 24. Circular No. 101 revoked Circular No. 163 of June 6, 1969, which had subjected to control the authorized banks' position in foreign currencies and in CFA francs in foreign accounts. September 9. Order No. 3789 modified certain regu- lations set forth in Order No. 354 of February 14, 1969. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO The amount of BCEAEC banknotes that resident and nonresident travelers leaving for a foreign country could take out was increased from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000. The exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year to CFAF 150,000 (CFAF 75,000 for children under ten) a person a trip, within a limit of two trips a year. To obtain the allocation, residents were required to present only an attestation, the carnet de change being abolished. Henceforth the entire allocation could be taken out in foreign banknotes. The special allocation for business travel was increased from the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day (subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 300,000 a trip) to CFAF 20,000 a day (subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a tr ip). Upon their return, resident travelers had to surrender any remaining foreign currencies in excess of CFAF 5,000. September 9. Circular No. 110 provided the follow- ing. Authorized banks were obliged to apply for an authorization from the Office of External Financial Relations before mak ing any payment to foreign coun- tries. Such payments, when relating to goods imported from foreign countries, were conditional to the import- er's having obtained an import license, having domiciled it with an authorized bank, and having it visaed by the Foreign Trade Office and the Office of External Finan- cial Relations. Nonresident travelers on leaving the Congo were authorized to take out any remaining for- eign means of payment that they had previously brought in, either in the form in which they had imported them, or in the form resulting from their exchange in Congo, through the intermediary of an authorized bank, as well as any foreign means of pay- ment acquired from an authorized bank to the debit of a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Currency Account. Nonresident travelers could exchange at an authorized bank any CFA francs they held, up to CFAF 25,000, for foreign banknotes, provided they could show they had acquired the CFA francs after en try by the sale of foreign exchange or to the debit of a Foreign Account in Francs. The use of credit cards abroad by residents was prohibited. The Minister of Finance and the Budget would specify by circular the conditions under which zai're banknotes could be acquired by travelers going to Kinshasa and requesting no foreign means of payment other than zai'res. September 9. Order No. 3788 provided that nonresi- dent accounts opened in the names of correspondents abroad of authorized banks could be credited with BCEAEC banknotes under conditions to be specified by circular by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. September 9. Circular No. 109 was issued containing procedural details concerning Suspense Accounts (comptes d'attente) and suspense dossiers opened or to be opened for nonresidents. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon or 06.625 = US$1. The Central Bank of Costa Rica buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of 06.62 per US$1. Exchange may be purchased freely by the public in a market in which the Central Bank maintains the rate at 06.65 per US$1. Costa Rica has no exchange restrictions on current or capital payments. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The controls over export receipts are operated by the Central Bank. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks acting as its agents. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U. S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U. S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Hondu- ras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be made in Costa Rican colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearing- house established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for payments for all imports of Central American origin and for all current invisibles and capi- tal transfers. The central banks of these four countries may also engage in transactions in Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the documents must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no transac- tions with Mexico in Costa Rican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be 114 made freely. A few imports, however, are made on a barter basis; these require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.1 In addition to any applicable customs duty, there are levied on imports (1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common external tariff of the Central American Common Market; and (2) a sales tax with a range of 5-25 per cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt. Furthermore, most imports originat- ing outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not controlled, and exchange may be purchased freely. All passages for foreign travel are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchan- dise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; (2) sugar requires an export license from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be con- trolled; ( 3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses f rom the Institute for Lands and Colo- nization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses from the Civil Avia- tion Board; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses from the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license from the Tobacco Defense Board; (8) certain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin require a permit f rom the M in is try of Agriculture and Livestock; and (9) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the 1 With effect from January 6, 1971, importers of goods originating in Hondu ras were required to put up a special bond (fianza); some raw materials were exempt, subject to recommendation and approval by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have con- tracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) a sum equivalent to the depreciation on their investments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U. S. Internal Rev- enue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained or sold freely. Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amortization. Gold Only the Central Bank is permitted to purchase or sell gold. Any physical or juridical person who has or COSTA MCA acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank within 60 days from the date on which they became his property; exempt are small amounts in coin collections, jewelry, or family keepsakes. Imports and exports of gold are made only by the Central Bank. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artis- tic or professional users. Changes during 1970 March 5. A swap agreement was signed by the cen- tral banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. The swap facility was for the equivalent of US$5 million. June 26. A trade agreement was signed with the U. S. S. R. It went into force on November 22. Pay- ments would take place in convertible currencies; trade would, to the extent possible, be balanced. August 12. Decree No. 4628 exempted exports of goods and services from the sales tax. September 1. As provided by the Protocol of San Jose, an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the appli- cable import duty was imposed on most goods imported from outside the Central American Common Market. October 29. Law No. 4646 empowered the Central Bank to regulate imports and exchange transactions when the balance of payments was under pressure. In particular, the Central Bank was authorized to impose controls on the value and volume of imports, and to fix import prices. (These powers were additional to those in the Central Bank's charter enabling it to restrict the use of official market exchange to the payment of essential imports, and to permit the operation of a free exchange market for the payment of nonessential imports.) 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound or £C 1 = US$2.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1970 was US$2.39% buying, and US$2.38% selling, per <£C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cere- als are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settle- ments between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements * must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated in pounds sterling. Pay- ments to other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Settle- ments with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, desig- nated External Accounts. These may be credited with 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ru- mania, and U. S. S. R. 116 authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with (1) payments f rom External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or draft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or under irrevo- cable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of any country made by check, bill, or draft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevo- cable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodesia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) living expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his family, (4) insurance premiums payable to compa- nies in the Sterling Area on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his family, (5) bank charges due to authorized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and cashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rhode- sian Accounts. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an Exter- nal Account without prior reference to the Central Bank, but cannot be credited to the Blocked Account. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: On application by the author- ized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresi- dent account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educa- tional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's chil- dren; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution releases under (1 ), (2 ), and (3 ), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release to each nonresident holder of blocked funds of up to <£C 1,000, as well as a fur ther amount of up to <£C 5,000 in any calendar year, pro- vided that the amount applied for in respect of the latter release represents the proceeds of redemption or sale of securities that were held for account of the non- resident beneficiary for a continuous period of at least four years.- Imparts and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Tibet, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. Certain goods may not be imported freely (some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial mach inery); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. are permitted in accord- ance with the terms of bilateral trade and payments agreements. With respect to Albania, mainland China, North Korea, Mongolia, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam, no formal trading arrangements exist but certain barter transactions take place from time to time. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts up to <£C 10 in value (not to be sold), for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all permitted imports may be made freely, but the authorized dealers' authority to effect payment without reference to the Central Bank is for advance payments in respect of imports from countries outside the Sterling Area limited to the equivalent of £C 100. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval pf the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insur- ance companies are remittable after deduction of all 2 For any amounts blocked before December 1, 1969, the period from the date the funds were blocked up to November 30, 1969 will count against the four-year period, provided that the funds involved were invested in such securities before December 31, 1970 and have been held for at least 12 months. CYPRUS expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documen ta ry evidence of hardship. For cer ta in categories of payments, limits are imposed, m a i n ly for the purpose of preventing illicit capital out- flow. For study abroad, the lower limit is <£C 500 a year, and the upper limit is <£C 1,700 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the coun try concerned —e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, <£C 550; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,700; in other countries, <£C 1,050. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on produc t ion of documen tary evidence. For tourist travel, the l im it is <£C 250 a person annually; for busi- ness travel <£C 10 to <£C 40 a day is granted in addi- tion to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allow- ance is not ava i lab le for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and fore ign currency notes up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commis- sion. Exports to Sterling Area countries, with minor exceptions, are free from licensing, irrespective of their amount; exports to other countries are free from licen- sing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed «£C 75. Goods destined for countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a fu r ther control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sur- rendered w i th in one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area curren- cies must be sold to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or pay- ments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require the prior ap- proval of the exchange control authorities. In consid- ering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participation in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in ex- ceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up resi- dence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emi- grate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may trans- fer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1970 During the year, in order to clear away a large number of Blocked Accounts, holders of such Accounts were freely permitted to convert any balance up to £C 1,000. July 1. The additional allocation for business travel outside the Sterling Area was raised from <£C 5-25 a day to <£C 10-40 a day. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. The domestic negotiation of the currencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. Dahomey's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Dahomey itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directo- rate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economy and Planning, which also supervises borrow- ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward direct invest- ment, all investment in foreign countries, and the solic- itation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Plan- ning, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and Planning personally. Exports of d i amonds require the prior approval of the Directo- rate of Mines. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Import certificates for liberalized commodities f rom OECD coun t r ies o ther t h an Japan are made out by the impo r ter h imse lf and approved by the D irec tora te-General of Economic A f f a i r s. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Opera t ions Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- ments with France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.2 All settle- ments w i th Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Imports of all other goods f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely w i thout an import license. Imports of all other goods from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automat- ically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in OECD countries other t h an Japan and only require i rrhe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo and Upper Volta. 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, and the United Arab Republic. The agreement with Eastern Germany has never been ratified. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities from OECD countries, all imports from Japan, and all imports from non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a joint French- Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this pro- gram, a global quota is established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. (In 1970, however, no global quota was formally established.) Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports from foreign countries when valued at more than CFAF 20,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certifi- cates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a year for each person (CFAF 37,500 for children under ten); any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Dahomey must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified countries 3 or CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Dahomey is permit- ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign 3 Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Democratic Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. 120 countries may take out up to a maximum oi CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange book- let (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 if they have made no declaration, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at over CFAF 50,000. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Exports of gold require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance personally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Directo- rate of Mines. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must normally be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion and surrendered by sale on the foreign exchange market w i th in two months of collection. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; resident travelers must within eight days surren- der any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travel- ers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 they br ing in and, if they are travelers checks representing the unutilized portion of an exchange allocation, they must have their travel exchange booklet marked accordingly by the authorized bank to which the foreign currency is sold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Dahomey and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct invest- ment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate building operations abroad; these spe- cial controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Planning.4 Foreign direct investments in Dahomey5 must be declared to the Minister of Econ- omy and Planning before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the decla- ration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liqui- dation of either type of investment also requires decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Dahomean investments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Planning within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. "Including those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. DAHOMEY The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Planning. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Planning. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchant- ing firms to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain condi- tions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not con- stituting a direct investment requires the special authori- zation of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to authorization by the Minister of Economy and Planning. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 pro- vides for preferential status that may be granted to for- eign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials neces- sary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption during the first 5 years of operation from the tax on industrial and commercial profits as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, Plan C guarantees marketing stabilization for prod- ucts, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advan- tages. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior author- ization by the Minister of Economy and Planning, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by the Minis- ter. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 June 15. Order No. 7027 MF was issued. The exchange allowances for tourist and business travel to foreign countries were maintained unchanged. The use of credit cards abroad was prohibited. Residents going abroad for less than 24 hours could not take out more than CFAF 2,500 in banknotes issued by the Bank of France or any institute of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Returning res- idents were required to sell to an authorized bank within 8 days any remaining foreign banknotes or trav- elers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 (previously all remaining foreign exchange). Nonresident travelers could upon departure, without formalities, take out for- eign banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 (previously CFAF 50,000); or, subject to submission of documents, higher amounts if declared upon entry or acquired by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency or by conversion of for- eign means of payments established in their names abroad. New definitions of resident and nonresident trav- elers were provided. June 15. Circular No. 44 increased the exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries from the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year to CFAF 75,000 a person a year (from CFAF 25,000 to CFAF 37,500 for children under ten). June 15. Circular No. 45 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 69-297 of December 2, 1969. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meeting the follow- ing conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 50 million; and (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. (3) Certain borrowings to finance operations abroad or imports and exports. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the Minister of Economy and Planning if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publi- cation of Decree No. 69-297 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sion of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. August 31. Circular No. 008 was issued concerning the domiciliation in France by traders resident in Dahomey, of imports of merchandise shipped direct from a foreign country to Dahomey or from Dahomey to foreign countries. Such domiciliation, although now possible, was to remain exceptional. August 31. Order No. 009 specified the countries to which the CFAF 10,000 a day allocation for business travel would apply. There was no change from the pre- vious listing. August 31. Order No. 010 provided that Foreign Accounts in Francs opened in the names of foreign correspondents of authorized banks could be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes of any other institute of issue maintaining an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury, in circum- stances to be announced by circular. August 31. Circular No. 009 provided that Foreign Accounts in Francs could be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. October 12. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to banks. The banks' reporting requirements with respect to their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1,3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked. October 14. Order No. 021 prohibited the import of cement from all sources. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency DENMARK The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone or DKr 7.50000 = US$1. The official limits for the U. S. dollar are DKr 7.44375 buying, and DKr 7.55625 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most often.1 Author- ized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward for up to 12 months with one another and with their foreign correspondents in all cur- rencies, including Danish kroner (other than Danish kroner on East German accounts). Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must cover con- trac tual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968), restrictions for security reasons are applied to virtually all payments and transfers to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Denmark accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands; the latter has its own currency, however. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange con- trol authority. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Canadian dol- lars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exceptions to this rule are that payments to Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts and that virtually all payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia must be credited to a Capital Account. Payments from Eastern Germany are nor- mally., settled through inconvertible krone accounts, but may also be settled otherwise. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play an insignificant part in foreign settlements and East German accounts. Krone accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 (on all krone accounts together that are held by one nonresident) are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each quarter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person during the first year after emi- gration. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and one year after emigra- tion the balances are made convertible. Capital accounts are also kept for residents of Rhodesia; bal- ances in these accounts are inconvertible. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with sav- ings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept mainly by pri- vate persons and for private purposes. The rules gov- erning such accounts follow broadly the same princi- ples as those established for convertible Krone Accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licens- ing from all sources. The import licensing system is based on three negative lists and three country lists. Commodities listed in Annex 1A to Executive Order No. 584 (as amended) of the Minister of Commerce require a license irrespective of country of purchase or 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK origin. All commodities require a license when pur- chased from or originating in countries or territories listed in Annex 2 III (Albania, mainland China, the Republic of China, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and North Viet-Nam). Goods listed in Annex 1C require a license when purchased from or originating in countries of Annex 2 II (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R.) or Annex 2 III (see above). Goods specified in Annex IB require a license when purchased from or originating in countries of Annex 2 I (Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands) or Annexes 2 II and 2 III (see above). With these exceptions, imports are free of license, provided that for the countries of Annexes 2 I and 2 II the country of origin and the country of purchase are identical. Imports originating or purchased in Rho- desia are not being licensed. Some of the goods in the three commodity lists are subject to global or bilateral quotas, but most are being licensed automatically when originating or purchased in countries of Annex 2 II. Only cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. Imports of bread grain, feedgrain, and certain grain products are subject to equalization charges representing the difference between specified m in imum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Danish ports. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rho- desia is prohibited. With this exception, payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within two years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and major plants, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commer- cial credits with the latest day of payment within 90 days from inward clearance can be paid at any time within that period if any savings are achieved as a result. The authorized exchange dealer may make pay- ment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within two weeks from the date of payment. For ships, aircraft, heavy machin- ery, and major installations, advance payments cannot be made more than 14 days before the date stipulated as the latest permissible date in the contract, and not more than one year before the expected inward clear- ance of the goods (or the recording in a Danish ship reg is ter). Documentary credits for imports may be established up to 90 days (180 days for specified Far Eastern countries) before the expected date of inward clearance. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank; they are 124 approved when the payment is genuine and in accord- ance w i th the t rad i t ions of the trade. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments by residents for most invisibles to be made freely,2 pro- vided that payments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the t r a d e ); only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permit- ted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than two weeks before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 2,000. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased f rom agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or edu- cational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents, who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the excep- tion of products intended for strictly medical purposes, educational material or other equipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. Exports to any country of major agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Exports of poultry, bacon, and cheese to the United Kingdom are licensed up to annual quotas and exports of pigs and pork to EEC countries are subject to export levies. Exports of other agricultural products are permitted freely to all countries except Rhodesia. Exports of all products to CMEA countries and speci- 2 On January 26, 1971, it was made clear that the general regula- tions applicable to residents' payments to foreign countries were applicable also to the transfer by foreign nationals residing in Den- mark of their wages and salaries, e.g., for family remittances, gifts, and family loans; moreover, premiums for existing life and annuity insurance could be transferred. Also, authorized banks were empow- ered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of for- eign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person concerned had not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer was made to the remitter's own account abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fied Far Eastern countries and exports of a few indus- trial products to all other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the primary pur- poses of the regulations being to safeguard the fulfill- ment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, and to serve strategic purposes. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial ex- penses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repur- chase the transferor's own bonds (insofar as bonds wholly or partly denominated in foreign currencies are concerned, only to the extent necessary for current amortization purposes), to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary compa- nies, branches, and so forth, or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. The National Bank has granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, for account of their resident cus- tomers in connection with direct investments or with the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The authority is limited to DKr 40,000 a year for each for- eign enterprise for direct investments and to DENMARK DKr 40,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved, but portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Loans and credits involving non- residents and made in connection with commercial transactions are normally permitted, subject to certain limitations. Under a voluntary agreement with the National Bank, authorized banks deposit in a special account with the National Bank the counterpart of any increase in their net foreign liabilities. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person during the first year after emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handicrafts, hotel busi- ness, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a non- resident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresi- dent who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct invest- ment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of investments in Denmark.3 They may purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscrip- tion rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, further, grant loans of DKr 100,000 to DKr 1 million per borrower in a cal- endar year to finance the borrower's own enterprise in the fields of agriculture, industry, trade, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, provided that the activity in question does not exclusively or essentially 3 On February 26, 1971 the sale to nonresidents of Danish mort- gage bonds expressed solely in Danish kroner and listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange was freely permitted up to an annual ceiling of DKr 100 million (sales price). 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK consist in financing, trading in real estate, or building and construction activities, and provided that the matu- rity is at least five years. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and the like, and to members of the nonresident's family. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special per- mission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrow- ing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident must not be amortized or repaid in full more than 14 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the customary date in the trade; commercial credits for which the latest permissible date of payment under the contract lies within 90 days from inward clearance may be repaid at any time within that period if it results in any savings. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individ- ual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lations, the details of which are established by the National Bank, or, when exports of specified multiple currency Danish bonds are concerned, by the Ministry of the Interior. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with cer- tain exceptions, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresi- dents may with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations concerning emigrants are not circumvented. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark. Residents other than the monetary author- ities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold nor- mally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Com- 126 merce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the mon- etary authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 15 per cent but not to customs duty. Domestic transactions also are taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. Changes during 1970 January J. Executive Order No. 584 governing com- modity imports came into effect (subsequently amended by Executive Orders No. 92 of March 18, 1970 and No. 297 of June 22, 1970). The import licensing system was reorganized on the basis of three negative lists and three country lists. The Free List Area system was discontinued, under which all imports from coun- tries outside the Area required an import license while most imports from countries inside the Area were free of license; the three new country lists comprised the 16 countries that as of December 31, 1969 were not included in the Free List Area (plus the Ryukyu Islands). The changeover resulted in additional import liberalization, particularly for commodities originating in CMEA countries; commodities liberalized for all sources, either on January 1 or later in 1970, included raw coffee, roasted coffee, and wines. January 21. The regulations of June 9, 1969 con- cerning prepayments of debts, etc., were modified as follows. (1) Documentary credits for imports from specified Far Eastern countries could be established up to 180 days (previously 90 days) before the expected date of inward clearance (or, in the case of transit trade, of taking delivery). (2) Residents were again permitted to transfer funds to their bank or Giro accounts abroad, provided that amounts so transferred were used immediately for permitted payments. (3) Discounting in Denmark by authorized banks' foreign correspondents of bills drawn by residents was again permitted, up to specified limits. January 21. The ceiling of DKr 200,000 up to which exchange dealers could freely make payments related to transit trade with Eastern European countries was revoked. May 21. The rate of the value-added tax for imports was increased from 9 per cent to 15 per cent. (The rate of value-added tax on domestic transactions was raised from 12.5 per cent to 15 per cent with effect from July 1.) June 12. Regulations were issued for hotels and simi- lar establishments with a view to their giving guests a better exchange rate than previously when exchanging foreign currency. July 1. The existing import embargo on grains for feed use was extended to corn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Do- minican Peso or RD$1.00 = US$1. Exchange transac- tions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value, plus a commission of %2 of 1 per cent. Ex- change transactions by commercial banks with the pub- lic also take place at the par value, subject to banking commissions of % of 1 per cent buying and % of 1 per cent selling. With the exception of payments for im- ports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, all payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The com- mercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. There is a tolerated par- allel exchange market. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is adminis- tered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board estab- lishes import quotas, which are administered and con- trolled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U. S. AID must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements with Colombia and Venezuela may be effected through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements:1 pay- ments in respect of oil imports, however, may not be made through these accounts. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 80 categories of goods, including automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted by quotas. All commodities are exempt from quota and prohibition when they are financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; such imports are also exempt from prepayment of im- port taxes and surcharges. Licensing controls are main- 1 Under these arrangements, import collections and other payments to Colombia and Venezuela are settled promptly. tained over a few commodities, however, for reasons of health or security. All payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the importer's own exchange. Commodities subject to quantitative restrictions can be imported and settled with official exchange only against a f u l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same re- quirement applies to some other goods that are not sub- ject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions, including alcoholic bev- erages, Venetian blinds, some perfumes and cosmetics, electric ovens, freezers and refrigerators, record play- ers, and certain construction materials. Some 20 other import items not subject to restrictions must be covered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applica- tions for all imports against letters of credit. After the Central Bank approves an application and the importer (where necessary in accordance with Decree No. 239) prepays import duties and surcharges to the customs, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank deb- its the account of the commercial bank for the peso equivalent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. Importers of most commodities subject to the prepaid letter of credit obligation are also required to prepay to the customs 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and surcharges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available w i th in not more than five working days from the receipt of the application, but since May 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange. Most imports are subject to an internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. Virtually all imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internos) ranging from 20 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 5 per cent. Certain foodstuffs are exempt from import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of seasonal shortage. payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is only given after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel, fam i ly remittances by Dominican nationals, 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC medical expenses abroad, and insurance other than insurance on merchandise imports is suspended.2 Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200 or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonresidents work ing in the Dominican Republic may remit up to 60 per cent of their salaries abroad for any purpose. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$150 for studies in Latin America, Puerto Rico, and Spain, and up to US$200 for studies in the United States (except Puerto Rico), Canada, and other European countries.3 Ex- change is also sold for remittances to authorized stu- dents to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered w i th the Central Bank, are approved in con- fo rm i ty with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends on foreign investments made on or before October 6, 1970 are in principle approved on presentation of a balance sheet which has been agreed w i th the tax authorities, provided that taxes due on these earnings have been paid, including an 18 per cent tax on dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents; in some cases the transfer may have to be effected in mon th ly or quarterly installments. Profits on foreign in- vestments made after October 6, 1970 may be remitted, subject to the flat 18 per cent tax, provided that a cer- tificate of the Central Bank is presented certifying the genuine na ture of the foreign investment and provided that the investment has been registered at the Central Bank. Remittances of profits on foreign investments made after October 6, 1970 without such certification are taxed at the complementary income tax rate or at 18 per cent, whichever is higher. (The applicable com- p lemen tary tax rate rises progressively and is 70 per cent for dividend or profit income in excess of RD$900,000.) In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days from receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of any travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of re- ceiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices pub- lished by the Central Bank. Exempt from the exchange surrender requirements are foreign mining companies and firms operating in industrial free zones, which are only required to convert sufficient foreign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of embar- kation without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surren- dered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capi- tal remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Registration may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of outward capi- tal remittances must be submitted through the commer- cial banks to the Central Bank. Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are au- thorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provi- sion for the transfer to be effected in annual install- ments. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 2 With effect from January 15, 1971, exchange allocations for some of these items were resumed; the travel allocations were among those that remained suspended. 3 Increased to US$175 and US$225, respectively, from January 1, 1971. Changes during 1970 January 1. The system of import controls established in 1967 was further extended until June 30, 1970 by 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution virtue of Decree No. 4457 of December 1, 1969. Im- porters of items under quota would in 1970 receive foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 60 per cent of the ir imports of these items dur ing the base period (the 12 months prior to July 10, 1967). January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Vene- zuela went in to operation. The agreement had forma l ly entered into force on Ju ly 1, 1968. January 2. A reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Banks of the Dominican Republic and Colombia was signed and came into force immediately. January 13. Law No. 545 extended for one year the 20 per cent in te rnal consumption tax levied on most imported commodities. February 2. Impor ts of jeeps ceased to be subject to quota. March 6. Letters of credit opened to cover imports into the industrial free zones, or to cover imports of insecticides and the like no longer were required to be prepaid. April 1. Law No. 554 abolished the advance import deposit requirements. Previously, advance deposits of 10, 20, or 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value were required for many goods unless they were paid for with the importer's own foreign exchange. April 10. Imports of motorcycles for government use ceased to be subject to quotas. May 29. Imports of wooden construction frames, paints, and s ta in ing ma te r ia ls were made subject to quota and to the prepaid letter of credit requirement. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC June 11. The importation of whitewall tires ceased to be prohibited. Imports of fertilizers could be paid for by regu lar ra ther than prepaid letters of credit. July 1. Decree No. 5133 of June 18, 1970 extended the system of import controls until June 30, 1971. Allocations remained at 60 per cent. July 3. Decree No. 5176 exempted automobiles val- ued at RD$2,000 or less from the tax of RD$700 per un it impor ted. July 27. Law No. 597 provided that exporters could be re imbursed for 95 per cent of the amount of tariffs and import surcharges paid on raw materials and semi- finished goods incorporated in manufac tured export products. Similarly, 95 per cent could be refunded of any in te rnal taxes paid on the sale and production of manu fac tu red goods subsequently exported. October 6. Law No. 30, which amended the Income Tax Law No. 5911 of May 22, 1962, provided that profits resulting f rom foreign investments made after October 6, 1970 could be remitted, subject to a flat 18 per cent tax, provided that a certificate of the Central Bank was presented certifying the genuine nature of the investment and provided that the investment had been registered with the Central Bank. Remittances of profits on foreign investments made after October 6, 1970 w i thout such certification would be taxed at the complementary income tax rate or at 18 per cent, whichever was higher. December 29. Law No. 76 extended for another year the internal consumption tax of 20 per cent levied on most imports. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR f rom Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits and additional import taxes have been paid and that the required prepayments of import duties have been made. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping docu- ments; advance payments for imports are generally pro- hibited. For some goods, import licenses are issued which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses," licencias sin divisas, or permisos de importation no Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0355468 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre or S/ 25.00 = US$1. The Central Bank maintains official rates of S/ 24.75 buy ing and S/ 25.25 selling per U.S. dollar which apply to all exchange transactions. Ecuador accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has extensive powers with re- spect to import policy. The unified exchange market is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses, registers foreign capital, and approves sales of exchange for transactions in invisibles where the amount of exchange requested exceeds the norms established for sales by commercial banks acting as its agents. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require the prior authorization of the Ministry of In- dustry and Commerce. Imports which enter as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises which have contracts with the Government require a permit from the Finance Ministry as well as from the Central Bank in lieu of an import license. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, and Rumania must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Colombia, Mexico, and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music, which may be imported freely without a license. Prior import licenses are re- quired for all permitted imports, with the exceptions specified below. Medicine and spare parts for machin- ery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$100 or less. A few goods may be im- ported only from LAFTA countries, and some only 130 cent of the c.i.f. value. At the end of December 1970 the advance deposit rates for imports to be paid within 90 days were 38.4 per cent for List I goods and from 97.20 per cent to 328.05 per cent for List II goods. In August 1970 the Government announced that prior import deposit rates would be reduced quarterly in a schedule designed to lead to the elimination of advance deposit requirements on List I imports by June 30, 1971 and on List II imports by September 30, 1972. The prescribed prepayment of import duty is 100 per cent for both List I and List II commodities. Advance deposits are released pan passu with the making of im- port payments. That part of the deposits which exceeds 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value is released at the time of customs clearance. List II goods are subject to an additional duty of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. import value; this duty replaced the monetary stabilization sur- charges in effect prior to August 16, 1970. Exempt from this duty are (a) imports financed with foreign loans to the National and Municipal Governments; (b) imports of petroleum and exploration equipment financed from their own resources by companies who have contracts with the Government; and (c) imports of agricultural, stock-raising, fishing, and industrial equipment by the National Development Bank. Certain goods on List II are subject to an additional import tax of 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value, paya- ble in sucres; the others are exempt. Also exempt from this tax are diplomatic imports and imports financed by foreign governments or international organizations. Im- ports of crude petroleum receive a subsidy of S/ 7.07 per U.S. dollar invoiced on import documents. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certifi- cate issued by the Finance Ministry on the basis of documentation approved by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce that the import was effected, without relation to the import payment. Payments for Invisibles Exchange may be acquired without limit for any payments for bona fide transactions in invisibles; no ex- change license is required. Commercial banks, acting as agents for the Central Bank of Ecuador are authorized to sell exchange for travel, studies abroad, for pay- ments for medical services abroad, and for royalty pay- ments; for other transactions in invisibles, including re- mittances of profit and interest payments, exchange can be acquired only from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Ecuador. Commercial banks may sell, without prior approval of the Central Bank, the follow- ing amounts for transactions in invisibles: (1) for travel, up to US$45 a person a day for up to 30 days a year; (2) for medical expenses abroad in advance of actual documentation of expenses incurred, up to US$2,000; (3) for study abroad, up to US$450 a ECUADOR month. For amounts exceeding these norms, prior approval of the Exchange Department of the Central Bank is required. There are no quantitative limits im- posed by the Central Bank for any bona fide current transactions. There are no norms for amounts which can be acquired without prior approval for royalty pay- ments; the applicable amount is specified in the royalty agreement, which must be registered with the Central Bank. For nonbusiness travel, persons are required to sign a contract with the Central Bank (or its agents) in which they promise to give proof of the number of days they were outside the country and to return any unutilized foreign exchange, within 30 days after re- entry. For business travel, the contract obliges the trav- eler to document his expenses and return any unused exchange w i th in 60 days from the date of return. Where travelers have utilized the excess exchange with- out justification, the Central Bank is authorized to impose a fine of up to 50 per cent of the amount not justified. For sales of exchange for medical expenses abroad on an advance basis of up to US$2,000, the in- dividual must sign a contract affirming that the actual medical expenses will be documented. For advance sales greater than US$2,000, which require prior ap- proval of the Central Bank, the latter requires in addi- tion that the party present some form of guarantee that the unutilized exchange will be resold to the Central Bank. In most instances a personal guarantee will fulfill this requirement. If the actual value of documented medical expenses exceeds the advance purchase, the Central Bank will authorize its agents, without limit, to sell the exchange necessary to make up the difference. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of S/ 400 for each exit visa, starting from the second visa in their passports. Tickets for foreign travel are taxed at the rate of 8 per cent on tickets for departure from Ecua- dor and 4 per cent on tickets for the return trip to Ecuador. For other transactions in invisibles, such as remit- tances of profits, interest payments on foreign debt, family remittances, payments of membership fees in professional societies abroad, etc., exchange can only be acquired from the Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Ecuador. Regarding profits remit- tances, the certificate of registry of the investment enti- tles the foreign investor to purchase amounts of exchange necessary to remit current profits on the reg- istered investment. To establish the bona fide nature of the transaction the investor must document the amount of dividend declared by the enterprise and the amount of the income tax on the profits. Companies under Ecuadoran law retain the amount of the income tax and make payments on behalf of the shareholders. The investor has a right to distribute and remit profits in an 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR amount equal to the profits on which the income tax was paid. An investor may remit profits accumulated from previous years for a registered investment on the basis of a schedule agreed with the Central Bank. For foreign exchange loans a registration certificate, which is received on the basis of documentation that the for- eign exchange proceeds were sold to the Central Bank, entitles its holder to remit freely the interest, commis- sion, and other charges and the amortization payments specified in the loan contract. For suppliers' credit or similar credit for financing imports, the import permit entitles its holder to purchase exchange in an amount and on terms specified by the importer at the time of the application for the import permit. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure, among other things, the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to bank guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of bananas to help ensure full surrender of the exchange proceeds. The reference prices are changed periodically in light of prevailing prices in major markets. Most exports are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. During 1970 a system of ad valo- rem taxes on the f.o.b. export value was instituted which affects about 90 per cent of exports by value. The rates are 5 per cent for exports by firms governed by the Industrial Development Law; 10 per cent for exports of bananas and shrimp; and 15 per cent for all other exports, except those specifically exempted. A small part of exports exempted from the ad valorem export taxes receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value at rates ranging from 2 per cent to 7 per cent. All exports of bananas are subject to certain additional spe- cific taxes, except those carried out through ports in Esmeraldas Province. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate on the basis of customs documentation. There are other export taxes in addi- tion to those mentioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank or its agents at the official rate. Capital All foreign investment in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. In the case of investment for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must document that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank of Ecuador. For foreign capital enter- ing in the form of machinery and equipment, the inves- tor must document that the merchandise has been 132 nationalized and that it took the form of a "nonreim- bursable" import. Additionally, the investor must pre- sent to the Central Bank the certification from the appropriate Ministry (Finance, Industry and Com- merce, or Agriculture) that the declared value con- forms to the actual value of the machinery and equip- ment. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recommendation to the General Man- agement of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of request for registration and all pertinent docu- mentation. Thereafter, taking into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans, the General Manage- ment of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment, for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in for- eign exchange must be registered with the Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Ecuador. Among the documentation required for registration is proof that the proceeds of the loan were sold to the Central Bank or its agents. In the case of suppliers' credits and similar credit for financing the importation of merchan- dise, no special registration procedure is required; all the pertinent information on terms of payment, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for purchase of exchange for remittance of inter- est, charges, and scheduled amortization. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumu- lated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments which have completed the registration pro- cedure. For investments registered on a provisional basis, only current profits may be repatriated. Companies or individuals residing in Ecuador, with the exception of authorized financial agents of the Cen- tral Bank of Ecuador and companies engaged in inter- national transportation, are forbidden to maintain for- eign exchange holdings, including foreign currency deposits in Ecuador or abroad. Residents who are pri- vate individuals are not normally granted foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Institutions which operate as financial agents of the Central Bank are authorized to maintain accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies for an amount and on terms which are stipulated in the contract of each such institution with the Central Bank of Ecuador. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tent represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of mone tary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports and are free of advance deposit. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made either by the Central Bank or any other resident and are treated as List II imports subject to advance deposit. Gold bars are exempt from import du ty, wh i le that on semiworked gold is 75 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1970 January J. Decision No. 8133 of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of December 31, 1969 went into effect. The payment to be made by sugar produ- cers expo r t ing under the U. S. preferen t ial quota was set at 8 per cent of the f.o.b. value. January 20. Decree No. 47 authorized the Minister of Agriculture to restrict (temporarily or indefinitely) the importation of dairy products whenever it was determined that domestic production was adversely affected by imports. January 23. The proportion of customs duties which must be prepaid was increased from 15 per cent to 40 per cent for List I imports, and from 70 per cent to 80 per cent for List II imports. January 27. The 4 per cent tax on freight charges for imports was e l im ina ted and replaced w i th taxes on gross receipts earned in Ecuador by air and maritime companies. January 28. Interministerial Decision No. 48 intro- duced a box with an officially assumed weight of 26 pounds for exports of bananas to Japan only. February 5. Decision No. 015 of the Ministry of Finance provided that oil companies signing a contract of association w i th the Government could amortize their investments and exploration expenditures in the first few years of exploitation. February 18. Decree No. 113 charged the Central Bank with the issuance of import licenses to firms cov- ered by the Industrial Promotion Law. March 5. The rates for prior import deposits were increased as a result of a decline in Ecuador's foreign reserves, to wh ich the rates had been tied by Monetary Board Regulation No. 544 of October 1969. The rates for List I imports ranged from 35 per cent on imports for which foreign payment was due within 90 days, down to 3.5 per cent on imports payable within 2-5 years. The rates for List II ranged from 250 per cent on "category d" imports for which foreign payment would be made within 90 days, down to 7 per cent for "category a" imports w i th foreign financing of 2-5 years. April 1. The rates for prior import deposits were raised, with the new range from 60 per cent down to 4 ECUADOR per cent for List I imports and from 405 per cent down to 8 per cent for List II imports. May 12. The rate of the stabilization surcharges levied on the c.i.f. value of imports was increased to 20 per cent for List I imports and to 38 per cent, 43 per cent, 45 per cent, and 55 per cent for List II, catego- ries a, b, c, and d, respectively (Decree No. 469). Pre- viously the rate was 11 per cent for List I and a uni- form rate of 22 per cent for all categories of List II. June 22. All foreign exchange transactions, including those fo rme r ly conducted in the free exchange market, were placed under the supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador by Decree No. 5. Both exchange markets were closed. June 29. Bank and nonbank residents were required to sell to the Central Bank by July 15 all foreign cur- rency they held at home or abroad, at the average rate of exchange that had prevailed on June 19 in the former free exchange market, i.e., S/ 21.54 per U.S. dollar. June 29. Supreme Decree No. 24 established an Exchange Committee empowered to regulate and super- vise exchange transactions conducted in the former free exchange market and to fix the buying and selling rates for exchange for that group of transactions. June 29. The exchange tax of y2 per cent on purchases and sales of exchange for transactions conducted in the former free exchange market was abolished by Decree No. 24. July 3. The Exchange Committee announced a number of restrictions on sales of exchange for transac- tions effected in the former free exchange market, in c lud ing: ( 1) a l im it on sales of exchange for travel of US$30 a person a day, up to a maximum of US$400 in any 12-month period; and (2) a requirement of a 50 per cent guarantee deposit for exchange purchased for medical payments abroad prior to actual documen- ta t ion of the expenditure. July 4. The Government assumed control of sugar exports to the United States. July 5. The Exchange Committee fixed the exchange rates for transactions conducted in the former free exchange market at S/ 22.77 buying, and S/ 23.23 sell- ing, effective when the exchange markets were reopened on July 6, 1970. July 6. Decree No. 47 introduced an exchange reform and the exchange markets were reopened. Major fea tures of the reform were as follows: (1) Total b an ana export proceeds must be sold to the Cen- tral Bank, whereas previously only an amount corre- spond ing to the m in imum surrender price had to be sold to it; for amounts in excess of the minimum sur- render price, the exporter henceforth received the more favorable rate accorded to transactions conducted in 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR the former free exchange market; (2) Proceeds from all other exports except coffee, cacao, and sugar received the rate for exchange sales in the former free exchange market; (3) Taxes were imposed on the f.o.b. export value at rates of 7 per cent for bananas and 15 per cent for other exports, except coffee, cacao, and sugar; (4) List II imports were transferred to the former free exchange market; and (5) The stabilization surcharge on the c.i.f. value of List II imports was reduced to 20 per cent for categories a, b, and c and to 30 per cent for category d. July 15. The Monetary Board was reorganized and its membership reduced from nine to seven persons, of which four were representatives of the executive branch of the Government and three were representa- tives of private sector banks and business groups. July 16. The rate of the ad valorem export taxes adopted on July 6 was reduced to 3 per cent for bananas and to 7 per cent for minor exports. July 24. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed w i th Mexico. It came into operation on August 24. July 31. Decree No. 177-B shifted crude petroleum f rom Import List II to List I. August 16. Monetary Board Regulation No. 550 pro- vided that the advance import deposit requirements would be gradually eliminated, by quarterly reduction. The first reduction went into effect on August 17, for the period to September 30. August 17. By Decree No. 239 of August 16 the official and fo rmer free exchange markets were unified and a single fixed exchange rate of S/ 25.00 per US$1 was established. The stabilization surcharges on List I and List II imports were eliminated; the surcharge on List II imports was replaced by a un i fo rm 20 per cent addi- t ional ad valorem import duty levied on the c.i.f. value. New ad valorem taxes on the f.o.b. value of exports were adopted as follows: (a) 5 per cent for exports by firms governed by the Industrial Development Law; (b) 10 per cent for exports of bananas and shrimp; and (c) 15 per cent for all other exports not specifi- cally exempted. Approximately 90 per cent of exports (by value) were subjected to these taxes. The taxes were payable when the export permit was received. Certain exports exempted from the new ad valorem export taxes were granted a subsidy based on f.o.b. value, at rates rang ing from 2 per cent to 7 per cent. The subsidy was received in the form of a tax credit certificate issued on the basis of customs documenta- tion. All restrictions on current payments and transfers were abolished but specific provisions covering sales of exchange for invisibles and foreign borrowing and direct foreign investment were to be formulated by the Monetary Board. 134 from The prepayment of import duties, requisite for ob ta in ing an import license, was increased to 100 per cent. August 17. The par value was changed S/ 18.00 = US$1 to S/ 25.00 = US$1. August 17. Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 551 of August 16 established the Central Bank's buy ing and selling rate for the U. S. dollar in dealings with the public at S/ 24.75 and S/ 25.25, respectively. August 28. The Monetary Board authorized the Cen- tral Bank of Ecuador to sell exchange freely for pay- ment for imports valued at US$100 f.o.b. or less; these did not require an import license. August 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 556 implemented the August 16 exchange reform measures w i th respect to sales of exchange for travel, medical payments abroad, and study abroad. Key provisions were as fo l lows: ( 1) for personal trave l, each person could purchase without prior approval up to US$45 a day for up to 30 days a year; additional amounts could be purchased if the bona fide na ture of the purchase could be documented to the Central Bank; (2) for business travel, additional exchange to that specified in ( 1) could be purchased as necessary, with the prior approval of the Central Bank or its agents; (3) for medical expenses abroad, up to US$2,000 could be purchased on an advance basis, with additional amounts requ ir ing approval; the Central Bank was authorized to sell any amount documented as bona fide expend i tu re for medical services abroad; (4) students abroad were entitled to purchase up to US$450 a month, plus additional amounts if accompanied by dependents, as justified by the cost of living in the country of study; (5) no norms were established for other invisibles, the Central Bank being authorized to sell necessary amounts for purposes documented as bona fide current transactions; and (6) persons denied exchange in the amounts requested by the Exchange Department of the Central Bank could challenge the decision by appeal to the Management of the Central Bank, and if necessary, to the Monetary Board. All royalty contracts concluded before June 22, 1970 had to be registered with the Central Bank and all new roy- alty contracts required its prior approval. August 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 555 was published which established the norms for registration, service, and amortization of direct foreign investment and foreign debt. Major provisions were as follows: (1) all foreign investment in Ecuador must be regis- tered with the Central Bank; (2) the certificate of reg- istration would enable the holder to purchase at the official selling rate sufficient amounts to remit current profits and, on the basis of a schedule agreed with the Central Bank, profits accumulated in previous years; (3) pending completion of the registration process cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rent (but not accumulated) profits could be remitted; (4) foreign investors could purchase exchange to repa- triate all or part of their capital according to a sched- ule approved by the Central Bank, but not until at least five years f rom the date on which the capital was registered; (5) foreign exchange loans must be regis- tered and the registration certificate would enable its holder to remit freely the interest, commission, other charges, and amortization payments specified in the loan contract; (6) for suppliers' credits and similar credits, the import license would entitle its holder to purchase exchange in an amount and on terms speci- fied by the importer at the time of application for the import license. August 28. Monetary Board Resolution No. 559 authorized the Central Bank to sell foreign exchange, at the exchange rate ruling on the day of sale, for imports valued at US$100 f.o.b. or less; no import license was required. (In June, such imports, which could be freely made, without license, provided that payment took place through the free market, had been suspended.) September 21. The following List II imports were exempted from the additional 20 per cent ad valorem duty: ( 1) imports financed with foreign loans granted to the National and Municipal Governments; (2) imports of petroleum and exploration equipment financed from their own resources by companies who had contracts from the Government; and (3) imports of agricultural, stock-raising, fishing, and industrial equipment by the National Development Bank. September 25. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed music, all of which formerly could be imported without an import license, henceforth required an import license. September 30. The second stage of the phased reduc- tion of prior import deposits announced on August 16, 1970 was effected. September 30. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed music were exempted from prior import deposit requirements by Monetary Board Regulation No. 564. October 13. Decree No. 496 of September 21 abol- ished the tax exemption for exports of coffee to Annex B countries. (The Decree was revoked on February 3, 1971 by Decree No. 153.) ECUADOR October 29. Commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign exchange for travel, studies abroad, and medical treatment abroad under norms previously established by the Monetary Board. Banks also were authorized to sell exchange for payment of royalties abroad; all royalty contracts must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. October 29. Official agencies, foreign embassies and consulates, and international organizations were permit- ted to maintain accounts in foreign currency with com- mercial banks in Ecuador. November 10. Monetary Board Resolution No. 566 was issued concerning the transfer to Ecuadoran nationals resident abroad of pensions and similar income. The Central Bank was also authorized to sell exchange for fam i ly remittances. November 26. Decree No. 847 restricted the facility of impo r t ing goods valued at up to US$100 without an import license to medicines and spare parts for machin- ery, tractors, and automobiles, trucks, and buses. November 27. Decree No. 876 regulated the export tax on bananas. December 10. Monetary Board Resolution No. 567 exempted from advance deposits imports of equipment and ma te r ia ls for road-building and maintenance, when effected by the Ministry of Public Works or other o f f ic ial agencies. December 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 568 provided that any physical or juridical person receiving a commission in foreign currency had to sell the exchange to the Central Bank or its agents w i th in ten working days of receipt. December 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 569 established procedures for imports and exports under barter transactions (trueque). Licenses were to be issued by the Central Bank after individual authoriza- tion by the Mone tary Board; export proceeds were exempt f rom surrender and import licenses were exempt f rom advance deposits. December 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 570 authorized the sale to in terna t ional shipping and a ir l ine companies of the foreign exchange necessary to remit abroad their local currency receipts from passages and fre igh t. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Sal- vadoran Colon or 02.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are 02.49 buying, and 02.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of %o of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of %o of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empow- ered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or of Agri- culture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salva- doran Coffee Company and require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensa- cion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled through the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may be authorized to hold nonresident accounts in U. S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. The accounts of nonresidents may be uti- lized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the 136 movements on such accounts. The maximum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom all countries except those of the Cen- tral American Common Market must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for airplanes, firearms, ammun i t ion, military equipment, dynamite, liquors, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed certain maxima (counted from the date of entry of the merchandise into a customs warehouse): (1) Imports of raw materials for industry, iron and steel products for the construction industry, various spare parts, greases, and lubricants are authorized by the Exchange Control Department when the terms of pay- ment do not exceed three years.1 (2) Imports of staple food products, medicinal products, and medical and surgical supplies must be paid for within one year.2 Imports of the following goods are not subject to maxi- mum credit terms: machinery and equipment for agri- culture and industry, semiprocessed goods for industrial production, surgical equipment, research and educa- tional equipment, scientific and technical books, fertilizers, and insecticides. A prior import deposit in local currency, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is applied to specified nonessential food prod- ucts, confectionery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco prod- ucts, perfumes, cosmetics, watches, and jewelry. All goods not mentioned previously in this paragraph may be imported only against payment before customs clearance. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports from Central American countries and US$2,000 for imports from all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities valued at over US$200, a prior deposit of 25 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the importer as 1 Four years when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1968, from which it receives loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. 2 Eighteen months when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1968, from which it receives loans with a maturity of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains other economic ties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution a guarantee, but industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. These regulations are also applicable to goods imported from other countries of the Central American Common Market. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, pro- vided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the sur- charge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are duty-free by virtue of the Industrial Incentives Law. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Permission to purchase exchange for travel out- side the Central American area (interpreted to mean the Central American Common Marke t) for tourism, business, or health reasons is granted by the Exchange Control Department up to the equivalent of US$400 a person a trip, on the basis of US$50 a person a day (US$200 for children under 15 on the basis of US$25 a d ay ); for amounts in excess of US$400 a person a trip, up to US$1,500 (for amounts in excess of US$200, up to US$750, for children under 15), a 20 per cent guarantee deposit in local currency must be lodged with the Central Reserve Bank, which is released upon the traveler's return.3 The Department also generally authorizes transfers of up to US$150 a month to each adult Salvadoran with permanent resi- dence abroad; larger amounts may be authorized when the need therefor is shown. Students also are allowed US$150 a month, in addition to an installation allow- ance, tuition, and other expenses. For nationals traveling to Central American coun- tries, the commercial banks have been delegated author- ity to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua, the equivalent of 0 500 a trip in Costa Rican colones, lempiras, or cor- dobas; for travel to Gua tema la, Gua tema lan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashier's check in Sal- vadoran colones up to the equivalent of 0 2,500 a trip (for payment in Guatemala through the Camara de Compensation Cen troamer icana). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted to the Central Reserve Bank. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control 3 Exchange up to the equivalent of US$500 (in excess of US$400) for specific clinic or hospital expenses abroad is exempt from the guarantee deposit requirement. EL SALVADOR Department at the t ime it took effect. A l terna t ive ly, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain f rom the Exchange Control Department au thor iza t ion to purchase the foreign cur- rencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign cur- rencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade w i th other Central American countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of food s tu f fs and o ther items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the pro- ceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the fore ign exchange must be surren- dered to the Cen tral Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Depar tment w i th in 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be au thor- ized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Cen tral Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may br ing in 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to mod- ification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Cen tral Ame r ican coun t r ies. Capital A ll exchange receipts r e su l t ing f rom capital transac- tions must be surrendered. Paymen ts abroad represent- ing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for inves tmen ts in Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Hon- duras, and N ica ragua. The en t ry of capital in the form of foreign investment may be registered with the Minis- t ry of Economy. Reg i s t ra t ion ensu res (1) f r ee rem i t- tance of net profits on foreign capital invested in indus t r ial enterprises, enterprises engaged in the extrac- t ion of non renewab le n a tu r al resources, and enterprises in the sphere of tourism; (2) the remittance of net prof i ts of en terpr ises engaged in other activities up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the M in i s t ry of E conomy ); (3) repatriation of the pro- ceeds f rom the total or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) with respect to loans, interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is required, in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Depart- ment in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign currency for the payment of interest and amortization on short- term loans from abroad that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term for- eign liabilities of the commercial banks through a system of individual quotas. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain min- imum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by fore ign nationals and for those in which for- eign nationals have a share-holding interest. For pur- poses of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five coun- tries of the Central American Common Market. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Sal- vador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by a jewelers' cooperative acting on behalf of its members and other users. Changes during 1970 June 2. A commercial treaty with Panama was signed providing for the exchange of specified com- modities either duty-free or at preferential tariff rates. June 23. With effect from July 1, the maximum exchange allocation for tourist, business, or health travel outside the Central American area was increased from US$1,400 to US$1,500 a person a trip (from US$700 to US$750 for children); the daily allowance was increased from US$40 to US$50 a person (from US$20 to US$25 for children). The guarantee deposit prescribed on purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$400 for tourist and business travel (in excess of US$200 for children) was reduced from 100 per cent to 20 per cent, i.e., the percentage normally required for health travel. September 9. The stamp tax was increased from 1 per mil to 1 per cent, except on sales of foreign exchange. September 9. The 30 per cent import surcharge established under the Protocol of San Jose was extended to raw materials and semimanufactured prod- ucts. October 30. Decree No. 37 amended Article 40 of the Regulations for the Law Controlling International Transfers. The amendment entered into force on November 3. Among the changes resulting from the amendment was the abolition of the 10 per cent ceiling on the t rans fer of profits of foreign enterprises, insofar as they are engaged in industrial, agricultural, mining, or tourist operations. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Exchange and Trade System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Guinean Peseta which is issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold, correspond- ing to Ptas EG 70.00 = US$1. The Spanish peseta, which previously was legal tender, is being withdrawn from circulation. No par value has been established for the Equatorial Guinean peseta. The currency is at par with the Spanish peseta. Rates for other currencies are based on those in the Madrid exchange market. All settlements between Equatorial Guinea and for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. Settle- ments with Spain are made through clearing accounts and settlements with other countries may be made in convertible currencies. Exchange transactions must be carried out through authorized banks. All payments and transfers to foreign countries require the prior approval of the Central Bank, and all receipts in for- eign currencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All imports and exports require individual or global licenses issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses also require the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign investments in Equatorial Guinea are gov- erned by the General Law on Foreign Investments in Equatorial Guinea. Changes during 1970 October 27. Law No. 1/1970 introduced a special tax of 35 per cent on income from Guinean sources remitted abroad and on profits remitted abroad (17 ¥2 per cent when at least half of the income or profits is reinvested in the country). It also established a tax of 25 per cent on payments to nonresidents in respect of royalties when remitted abroad. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar or Eth$2.50 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.475 buying, and Eth$2.525 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank; all exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the for- eign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U. S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at author- ized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval, except those between foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested, but advance payment for imports is not permitted. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally author- ized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic trans- fer, or cash against documents at sight or on an accept- ance basis; however, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated 140 on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual income net of taxes, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Govern- ment, w i th an autonomous government organization, or with certain private institutions, and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a stated percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for mainte- nance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision hav ing been made for local taxation and for a reserve prescribed by the Commercial Code, foreign compan- ies may remit dividends on their invested and rein- vested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$75 a day for a maximum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16 if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within six months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re- export is freely permitted. Capital All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no discrimina- tion regarding the currencies in which foreign invest- ments are accepted. Special concessions are made to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved new enterprises financed by domestic or for- eign capital; these concessions include exemption from taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and a guarantee of permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation. Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permit- ted in any currency. Transfers of emigrants' allowances, legacies, and savings of foreign employees upon retire- ment are permitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subse- quent 12-month period. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Ethiopia gold coins of a special commemorative issue, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966; such coins are offered for sale by the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia to resi- dents and nonresidents and may be exported by travel- ers. The ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adornment of which gold or platinum forms a part also ETHIOPIA is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Min- ister of Finance, the possession or custody, in a quan- tity in excess of 10 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the form of nug- gets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Certain mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank at a price slightly below US$35 an ounce. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by or on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. Such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users; those for the import of gold for industrial purposes are issued to registered importers by the National Bank on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1970 February 1. The advance import deposit requirement of 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value was removed and those goods previously subject to it could be paid for by clean transfer (mail or telegraphic), letter of credit, or cash against documents at sight. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Fin- nish Ma rkka or Fmk 4.19997 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U. S. dollar vary within 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for certain other currencies x vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Finland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. For- ward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Official fixed buying and selling rates are applied to the U. S. S. R. ruble and the U. S. dollar when used as a un it of account on bilateral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among them- selves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks in U. S. dollars and other convertible or externally convertible currencies. Forward transac- tions may be concluded freely for periods not exceed- ing 12 months; forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries2 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement or in Finnish markkaa through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the con- vertible currency countries may be made in any con- vertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. One half of the proceeds from exports to Colombia is set off against Finland's bilateral debtor balance. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kr6nur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 At the end of 1970 Finland had bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. However, settlements with Czechoslovakia and Poland were experimentally placed on a fully convertible basis for the year 1970 and these arrangements were continued in 1971. 142 Accounts, Restricted Markka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresi- dents in convertible or bilateral currencies.3 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kept; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kept; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Capital Accounts; for payments to residents of Finland; and for withdrawals in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for transfers abroad or withdrawals in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilat- eral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited with the equivalent in Finnish markkaa of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of Finland to residents of convertible currency countries; with transfers from other Convertible Markka Accounts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for transfers to other Convertible Markka, Restricted Markka, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2 ). They may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of U. S. dollars, the currencies listed in footnote 1, or the currency of the country of the account holder; with transfers from another Restricted Markka Account of the same coun- try; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account holder; with the value of Finnish bank- notes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Converti- 3 Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ble Markka Account, or a Restricted Markka Account; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a nonresident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets administered by the account-holding bank; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds and debentures. Capital Accounts may be debited for noncommercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder and for investment in shares and in those bonds and debentures that are denominated in Finnish mark- kaa, provided that the securities are quoted on the stock exchange and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder. The Bank of Finland normally grants permission for transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the multi- lateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all coun- tries with which Finland does not have bilateral pay- ments agreemen ts4), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups; no industrial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1970 amounted to some 0.5 per cent of total 1970 imports. All remaining goods require an individual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the discretionary licensing list, which comprises only agricultural commodities and petroleum products. The only commodities still subject to quantitative restriction for the multilateral area are certain agricul- tural commodities, certain fuels, certain fertilizers, and gold and silver. Import licenses are not required for most commodi- ties originating in and shipped from the U. S. S. R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberalized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of commodities originating in countries classified neither in the multilateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the sole agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and 4 The exceptions are the Republic of China, North Korea, Mongo- lia, Rhodesia, and the Republic of Viet-Nam. FINLAND products of these grains for human consumption. There is a state monopoly also for imports of alcoholic bever- ages. Exchange is granted w i thout delay for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. About one fourth of total imports, mainly specified consumer goods and all types of motor vehicles, must be paid for in cash before customs clear- ance or before the goods are placed in a public or pri- vate bonded warehouse or entered in a free port in Finland. Payment for other imports must be made w i th in six mon ths after the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Such credit is approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of premiums payable to foreign l ife insurance companies, payments and transfers in respect of current invisibles to countries who are mem- bers of the International Monetary Fund are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permis- sion to effect payments for most current invisibles, sub- ject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for other transactions, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Finland. All con- tracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be sub- mitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad (except for border travel) may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip. A traveler going to Denmark, Norway, or Sweden may withdraw on a savings account passbook issued by a Finnish monetary institution up to Fmk 500 during one jour- ney, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. Non- resident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins declared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 3,000; resident travel- ers to neighboring countries making frequent trips to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land boundary may take out for- eign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 200 a person a trip. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export licen- ses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commod- ity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. However, exporters are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials intended for his own production. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain working balances in foreign exchange, under the super- vision of the Bank of Finland. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inherit- ances are transferable without limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automati- cally up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Persons who during the last calendar year have resided outside Finland and continue to do so may transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland. Generally, the Bank of Finland will grant foreign exchange for this purpose. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible cur- rencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the author- ized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible cur- rency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange, but pro- ceeds from the sale of such securities may not be repa- triated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities 144 involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign direct investment are as follows: All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permis- sion liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of authorized direct investments is free. Foreign invest- ments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is concern for the pro- tection of na tural resources, mainly forests. Direct for- eign investment in the forest and mining industries is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surrendered. Outward trans- fers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1970 January 1. The import regulations for 1970 entered into force. The amount of the global quota program for 1970 was practically unchanged from 1969 and there was no change in the composition of the global quotas. February 2. The margins on either side of the par value within which the official buying and selling rates ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND for the U. S. dollar may vary were increased from % of 1 per cent to 1 per cent. June 1. Residents traveling to Denmark, Norway, or Sweden could henceforth withdraw on a savings account passbook issued by a Finnish monetary institu- tion up to Fmk 500 during one journey, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation did not exceed the equivalent of Fmk 3,000. July 6. Installment credit terms were tightened on the purchase of imported passenger cars, delivery trucks, television sets, refrigerators, deep freezers, and washing machines. August 3. A person who had continuously resided abroad during the last calendar year and continued to do so could henceforth transfer abroad his assets held in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland. The Bank of Finland, as a general rule, would grant foreign exchange for this purpose. Previously, such assets could be transferred in specified installments within a three-year period. November 3. About 25 per cent of total imports, ma in ly specified consumer goods and all types of motor vehicles, were required to be paid for in cash before customs clearance or before the goods were placed in a public or private bonded warehouse or entered in a free port in Finland. The regulations were slightly modified on November 30 and December 16. December 30. The Law on the Regulation of For- eign Exchange was extended, with a minor amendment, to the end of 1972. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc or F 5.55419 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U. S. dollars are main- tained between official limits of F 5.5125 buying, and F 5.5960 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other currencies fluc- tuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely negotiated rates, i.e., without any official intervention in the market. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries (see section on Exchange Control Territory, be low), are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal with the correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. However, restrictions have been imposed on the credit in francs that banks may grant to nonresi- dents, and each bank's foreign exchange position is subject to limitation. Residents other than banks may conclude forward exchange contracts in respect of imports only for specified commodities, but forward sales of foreign currency are free. There is also a market in which foreign exchange representing mainly the proceeds from the sale abroad by residents of certain French securities held abroad and of certain foreign securities may be negotiated at freely determined rates. These funds are available for the purchase abroad of French and foreign securities. The exchange rate in this market was about F 6.00 per U. S. dollar on December 31, 1970. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion), and five of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to the Principality of Monaco or the Operations Account countries (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and 146 Upper V o l t a ) ;x payments between France and these countries are free of restriction. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control pur- poses; all payments between France and foreign coun- tries are subject to exchange control. The Condo- minium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, however, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries.2 Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and out- ward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these do not apply to relations with the Operations Account countries or Monaco. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Guinea, the Khmer Republic, Laos, Morocco, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides.3 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless these matters relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applications and notifications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been dele- gated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique. The Directorate of Insurance of the Min- istry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, issue maintains an Operations 1 Countries whose institute of Account with the French Treasury. 2 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the con- cept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from January 31, 1967. In the context of countries' overall relations with France, however, the con- cept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal Togo, and Upper Volta); (2) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon); (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); and (4) two other countries (Malagasy Republic and Mali). This definition is fol- lowed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. 3 These countries and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of January 30, 1967 of the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrok- ers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives established by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses, is responsible for any legal problems arising from the exchange regulations, and in particular handles any litigation relating thereto. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industrial and Scientific Development has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.4 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the curren- cies of those countries, or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than French officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts on nonresident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission; overdrafts corresponding to normal mail delays that are granted by authorized banks to their foreign correspondents are covered by a general permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with the following: (1) The franc proceeds of the sale of foreign currencies on the French exchange market by a nonresident. (2) The franc proceeds of the sale of foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a nonresi- dent, provided that a customs declaration evidencing their importation is submitted; foreign banknotes are defined as excluding those issued by an institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. (3) The franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a 4 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) these are the institute of issue of the French Overseas Departments (for Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion); the Overseas Insti- tute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands); the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Econo- mique (for St. Pierre and Miquelon); and the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores (for the Comoro Islands). FRANCE foreign market, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers from another Foreign Account in Francs. (5) Amounts resulting from French securities held in a foreign dos- sier (interest, dividends, liquidation proceeds, etc.). (6) Interest, dividends, and amortization on foreign securi- ties held in a foreign dossier (but not the proceeds of their sale on the French securities marke t). (7) The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresident of a direct investment, provided that the liquidation itself has taken place in accordance with the relevant provisions (those of Decree No. 67-78 of January 27, 1967, as amended on March 21, 1969). (8) The proceeds of the sale, through the intermediary of a notary public, of real estate belonging to a nonresident. These accounts may also be credited with any authorized pay- ment by a resident to a foreign country. They may not be credited with banknotes of institutes of issue which ma in ta in an Operations Account with the French Treasury; however, they may be credited with French banknotes mailed to the Main Office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent.5 Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely debited for the following: (1) The purchase by a nonresident of any foreign currency on the French exchange market. (2) The purchase by a nonresident of foreign banknotes from an authorized bank. (3) The equiva- lent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank, provided that the regulations of the country concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers to another Foreign Account in Francs. (5) Any payment to a resident. If French francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other parts of the French Franc Area or from certain other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quanti- tative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individ- ual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are sub- ject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) 5 It is understood that this facility is shortly to be extended to banknotes issued by the BCEAO and the BCEAEC when mailed to the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE the fo rmer OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, F in land, the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified coun t r ie s ;6 (3) the Eastern European coun tr ies (A l b a n i a, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Po land, R um a n i a, and the U. S. S. R.) and mainland China; and (4) Eastern Germany. Imports f rom all countries of certain agr icu l tural items and certain raw materials are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Commodi- ties that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported f rom the next group of coun- tries plus some other specified commodities. Goods cov- ered by the import liberalization arrangemen ts applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the coun try of shipment both benefit f rom the same degree of liberalization. Impo r ts of prac t ica l ly all industrial products from coun t r ies in g roup ( 1) are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- t ions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc ts; there is relatively little d i f fe rence between the lists of goods which may be imported f r e e ly f rom d i f f e r ent countries in this group, these d i f- ferences re la t ing ma in ly to Hong Kong and Macao. Imports of about 50 industrial products from coun- tries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group ( 3) countries. For some commodi- ties, there are global quotas that are allocated semian- n u a l ly and apply to all countries other than those hav ing the bene f it of b i l a t e r a l ly negotiated quotas or of pr iv i leged t rea tmen t. Impor ts f rom non-EEC coun t r ies of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EEC are sub ject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regu la t ions are also applied to imports f rom non-EEC countries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock prod- ucts. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control fo rma l i t ies, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required; however, as an exchange con trol measure, the dom ic i l ia t ion of the import transaction may be prescribed. For some liberal- ized impo r ts, an adm in i s t ra t ive visa issued by the cen- tral customs adm in is tra t ion or by the competent techni- cal m i n i s t ry is required on an import declaration. Impor ts of the products of the European Coal and (i Afghan is tan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dom in ican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ras, India, Indonesia, I ran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Repub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan A rab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zea land, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Panama, Pa raguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arab ia, South A f r ica, Sudan, Sy r ian A rab Repub- lic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 148 Steel Community require licenses when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan d rawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued und er the compensation transaction proce- dure, which applies mainly to goods of Eastern Euro- pean origin. Because of the high degree of import lib- eralization, imports under this scheme are now of very slight importance. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and exceeding F 2,500 in value must be domiciled (regis- tered) w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. Unless advance payments have been authorized, the importer can buy his foreign exchange (1) if a documentary c r e d i t7 is opened, when he submits proof that the commodities w i ll be shipped to France within eight days, or (2) if the goods have been imported, upon submission of the customs declaration, but at the earliest eight days before the import payment falls due. The import payment itself can be made (1) if a docu- men ta ry credit has been opened, upon receipt of advice from the bank's foreign correspondent bank that the sh ipp ing documen ts (show ing direct shipment either to the French customs territory or to a nearby port, such as An twe rp or Ro t te rdam) have been submitted to it; (2) if a d ra ft accompanied by shipping documents (effet documentaire, remise documentaire) is presented to the au thor ized bank, when the bank has verified that the documen ts cover the goods concerned and that they have been shipped (to the customs territory or a neigh- boring p o r t ); (3) in case of imports of raw materials by importers ho ld ing a special authorization f rom the Customs Administration, as soon as the importer pre- sents the bill of lading to his bank of domiciliation; or (4) in all other cases, if the importer submits the cus- toms declaration (unless he already did so when pur- chasing his foreign currency). Advance payments for imports requ i re a special authorization f rom the Cus- toms Administration which must be submitted to the authorized b ank before it can make the corresponding paymen t. Forward cover for import paymen ts can be obtained only for the import of specified raw materials and speci- fied foods tuffs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc.) For- wa rd cover can only be taken in the currency of 7 Au thor ized banks are f ree to open a letter of credit as soon as a pro forma invoice or some other proof of a commercial contract is subm i t ted. The credit may have a validity of three months, within wh ich the goods must be shipped, but this period can be extended for another three-month period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution invoicing prescribed in the commercial contract and cannot exceed a period of one month or, for some commodities, three months. The foreign currency may be purchased at the time of domiciliation. Payments for Invisibles The allocation of exchange for travel to foreign countries is restricted. Payments for other current invisi- bles to foreign countries are controlled but not restricted. If justifying documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for pay- ments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for cer- tain other categories of current invisibles. Applications for other payments for invisibles are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital trans- fers. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 300 a person without indicating their purpose, provided that the transfers do not constitute installments of payments exceeding F 300, are not for purposes subject to special allocation, and do not serve to accumu la te funds abroad. Payments which may be authorized without limita- tion include those related to approved trade transac- tions; to income accru ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; to b ank ing commis- sions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; to specified insurance payments; to fees to medical doc- tors, lawyers, etc.; to a l imony in accordance w i th court decisions; and to net salaries of foreigners employed in France, provided that the t ran s fer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these inc lude cer ta in transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transpor t. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for th is purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 1,500 s a person (F 750 !) for chil- dren under t e n ), which may be taken up twice in a calendar year for two separate trips. The allocation for business travel is the equivalent of F 400 a person a day, subject to a max imum of F 4,000 a trip. Applica- tions for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for business travel are approved very liberally by the Bank of France. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 100 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before 8 Increased to F 2,000 on March 23, 1971. 9 Increased to F 1,000 on March 23, 1971. FRANCE departure. The use of credit cards abroad is prohibited.10 All fares for trips s tar t ing in France may be paid in f rancs in France. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 500 in French banknotes, or F 50 if they go abroad for less than 24 hours. These bankno tes may be spent abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out F 500 in French bankno tes and may reconvert into foreign cu r rency any French bankno tes up to F 500 obtained by the conversion of fore ign means of payment that they dec lared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in f ranc s; any rema in ing French bankno tes must be deposited w i th the customs against issuance of a receipt. Res ident trave lers may f ree ly take out the equivalent of F 1,500 in fo re ign notes and coins when acquired against a tour ist travel allocation, or, if they are leaving on a bus iness tr ip, the equ iva lent of F 500 in fore ign bankno tes and F 3,500 in checks or travelers checks. Nonres ident t rave le rs may not, in pr inc ip le, take out more th an the equ iva lent of F 500 in foreign banknotes unless they were declared upon en t ry and the anno- tated dec lara t ion form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m inus any amoun ts exchanged for francs plus any reconversions of f r an cs i n to fo re ign currenc ies. However, nonresident travelers may also freely take out any other means of payment es tab l ished in their n ame abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's dec- la ra t ion, any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of fore ign exchange, by debit to a Foreign Account in francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also requ i re ind iv idual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be per- mitted without any formality, subject to certain excep- tions. Regardless of their value, exports through com- pensation transactions with certain countries,11 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The repatriation12 and, where appropriate, the su r render of proceeds from exports to foreign coun t r ies is requ i red, no rm a l ly w i t h in one mon th of the 10 On Ap r il 23, 1971, their use was perm i t ted for up to 50 per cent of the a l loca t ions for tou r i st and bus iness trave l. The use of this fac i l i ty, however, was charged against the allocations. 11 A lb an i a, Bu lgar ia, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, Turkey, U. S. S. R., United A rab Republic, Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American coun- tries. 12 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE date on which the payment falls due. The due date of the commercial contract cannot, except with special authorization, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Such proceeds must not be received in French banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transac- tions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 5,000 13 or more must be domiciled with an author- ized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a certain percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import licenses for any commodity still subject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corre- sponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in for- eign currencies received in the previous year. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, Malagasy francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. Outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of resi- dents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are not 13 Increased to F 10,000 on March 29, 1971. 150 normally permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned f u n ds in France, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted; as an exception, although non- resident-owned foreign securities may be exported, they cannot be sold in France. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents can be exported, pro- vided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a fore ign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dos- sier can be sold in France and their proceeds can be transferred abroad, but foreign securities held under a fore ign dossier can only be exported. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited w i th a qualified bank or broker. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited. French or foreign securities held abroad by residents under the control of an authorized bank prior to November 25, 1968, and foreign securities held in France and depos- ited prior to January 15, 1969, can be dealt with in one of the following ways: (1) they may be kept abroad; (2) they may be sold abroad, in which case the sales proceeds must, within a month of receipt, either be sold on the French exchange market or be used —either by the seller himself or, through the inter- mediary of an authorized bank, by another resident—to purchase French or foreign securities abroad; and (3) they may be imported through the intermediary of an authorized bank. Purchases of French or foreign securities abroad by residents cannot be financed with foreign currency acquired on the French exchange market but are freely permitted under the following arrangement. The for- eign currency received by a resident from the sale abroad of (1) French or foreign securities held abroad under the control of an authorized bank prior to November 25, 1968, or (2) foreign securities held in France and deposited prior to January 15, 1969, as well as any foreign exchange held by a resident and deposited prior to that date (provided that it was not subject to surrender), may be sold freely to other resi- dents for the purchase of French or foreign securities abroad. The foreign exchange involved is unofficially referred to as devises-litres (security currency). Pur- chases may be made freely, and the French or foreign securities thus acquired may be imported, but foreign securities must be placed under the control of an authorized bank. The foreign exchange resulting from amortization of foreign securities is available for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution same purpose as that resulting from the sale abroad of French or foreign securities. French securities held abroad by nonresidents cannot be sold on the French stock market; however, if such securities are not quoted on any foreign stock exchange, they may be deposited in a nonresident dossier, subject to prior approval by the Bank of France, and may then be sold freely against French francs. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over capital issues on the French market, and over inward and outward direct investment, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control requirements. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the con- trol measures do not apply to relations with countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance.14 Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. Unless the amount involved is less than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Min- ister within 20 days after it takes place. The liquidation of French investments abroad requires prior declara- tion, and postponement may be requested by the Min- ister during two months after the declaration. French direct investment abroad must in many cases be financed abroad, and foreign direct investment in France must generally be financed in part with an inflow of foreign exchange. Foreign issues on the French capital market remain subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance.15 Exempt from authorization, how- 14 A decree of February 22, 1971 abolished this prior declaration requirement for direct investments in and f rom EEC countries. How- ever, in order to control such investments, a new prior declaration of all inward and outward investments became required within the framework of the general regulations governing financial relations with foreign countries (rather than, as previously, within the frame- work of the specific regulations governing these investments). More- over, prior authorization was henceforth required for all operations liable to involve a capital movement. M Since 1916 all foreign capital issues in France have required approval. On February 2, 1971 the Inter-American Development Bank was authorized in principle to issue loans totaling F 200 million in 1971 and 1972. FRANCE ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above, and whose postponement may be requested by the Minister up to two mon ths a f ter receipt of the declaration; (2) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (3) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (4) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (5) loans con- tracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized bank s ); and (6) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of a direct investment, and that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered. However, since July 24, 1970 borrowing in francs has been sub- ject to closer scrutiny to prevent excessive interest rates in the Euro-franc market, and the exemptions under ( 2 ), ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and (6) have in practice been limited to certain borrowing in foreign currency where the coun- tervalue in francs is not made available to the borrower or where repayment is scheduled to take place after at least one year. The application of the controls over direct invest- ment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au thor iza t ion and is restricted. Nonresidents are not permitted to borrow in France to acquire a dwelling, except for personal residence, in which case the total of such credit cannot exceed 50 per cent of the pur- chase price. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and all advances to non- residents require prior approval. The Bank of France has imposed limits on the foreign exchange positions16 of the authorized banks and on their claims in francs on foreign countries. Banks are pro- hibited from making, extending, or renewing the fol- lowing loans in French francs: loans to foreign bank- ing correspondents to finance transactions between 16 Total of each bank's own spot and forward positions in foreign currency vis-a-vis residents and nonresidents combined, excluding positions of customers. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE fore ign countries, loans to other nonresident customers for operations not linked to French exports, and loans to foreign correspondents or customers in the form of swaps against fore ign currencies. Nonresidents are free to subscribe to French short-term securities. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to Novem- ber 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coins in Paris, to which residents have free and anony- mous access. Imports and exports of gold into or from the territory of continental France require prior authori- za t ion by the Bank of France, which is not normally granted for monetary gold but usually is given for indus tr ial gold. Exempt f rom this requirement are (1) imports and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manu- fac tured articles containing only a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports of gold objects (other than medals, coins and bars, but including both personal and other jewe lry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to cus- toms declaration. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, is subject to both the regular import and export licensing arrangemen ts and to licensing by the Bank of France. In domestic trading, purchases of monetary gold (ba rs and coins) are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of mone tary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Changes during 1970 January 1. By virtue of Law No. 69-1161, the rates of value-added tax were changed to 7.5, 17.6, 23, and 33% per cent. January L Payment for exports to Andorra could be received only in fore ign currency or by debit to a For- eign Account in Francs. January 29. The National Credit Council announced that hence fo r th the claims of the authorized banks on the ir agencies abroad would be taken in to account in calculating the manda tory reserve ratio. February 9. Trade arrangements for 1970 were agreed with Japan. They provided for further import liberalization. February 12. The Bank of France reminded author- ized banks that "back-to-back" borrowing and lending 152 arrangements with nonresident companies were subject to the prior declaration and prior approval procedures for inward and outward direct investment. February 19. The preferential rediscount rate for medium-term export credits (in excess of 18 months) was eliminated in respect of sales to EEC countries but continued for sales to non-EEC countries. February 19. The Minister of Finance announced that measures in the field of export credit, exchange control, customs control, and outward direct investment would soon be taken in order to promote the develop- ment of industries manu fac tu r ing for export. In addi- tion to those specified in chronological order below, specific measures already approved by the Government included the raising of the export credit insurance ceil- ing for some countries and a review of the facilities for long-term export credit. March 1. In accordance with EEC Council Decision No. 2513/69, quantitative restrictions on the import of a number of agricultural products from all sources were eliminated. The measure was extended to addi- tional agricultural items on June 23. March 3. The President made a policy statement concerning the types of direct investments that U.S. companies would be permitted to make in France. This statement indicated some relaxation of the approval cri- teria. March 4. The Bank of France exempted from the credit ceilings, retroactive to February 3, foreign cur- rency loans granted to residents for purposes of financ- ing investment or settling local expenses abroad, pro- vided that authorization for the transaction was granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. March 6. A quota of 7.4 million hectoliters for the rest of the year was announced for imports of wine f rom Algeria. It was also announced that during the same period approximately 2 million hectoliters of wine could be imported f rom Morocco and Tunisia. March 12. The authorized banks were reminded that merchants resident in France could not normally domi- cile with an authorized bank in France any direct import or export transactions tak ing place between an Operations Account country and a country outside the French Franc Area. Domiciliation in France would only be permitted if the merchant had obtained prior per- mission to that effect f rom the authorities of the Opera- tions Account country concerned. March 16. The Bank of France informed the com- mercial banks of a relaxation of credit restrictions in the case of export financing granted to industrial firms. With effect from February 3, 1970, credits mobilizing short-term claims on foreign countries could increase by 1% per cent each month without such increase ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution counting for purposes of the general ceilings placed on the growth of credits to the economy. April 1. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries had to be recorded on a "surrender notice" (attestation de rapatriement) issued to the exporter by the bank receiving the payment and to be transmitted to the bank of domiciliation. April 7. Exporters were permitted to use the foreign currency proceeds from their exports to make pay- ments abroad in respect of commercial debts that had fa l len due (import payments and incidental charges), provided that the surrender period for the foreign cur- rency had not expired. Where appropriate, the currency held could first be sold for another foreign currency. The transactions (referred to as marches d"application) had to take place through authorized banks. April 13. The m in imum value of export transactions subject to domiciliation requirements was raised from F 1,000 to F 5,000. April 14. Further imports from Eastern Germany were liberalized. April 16. The Prime Minister stated that fu tu re applications for inward direct investments would be processed quickly. He also indicated certain basic requirements that such investments had to meet. April 26. The prior approval of the Customs Admin- istration ceased to be required for forward purchases of foreign currency by importers. Such purchases could be made at the time of domiciliation, provided that the payment was in accordance with the terms of the com- mercial contract. April 30. The banks' compulsory U.S. dollar deposits with the Bank of France were reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent of the excess of their net foreign currency positions (position en devises) over the limits laid down in the circular of January 20, 1969. May 1. The basic tourist travel allocation was increased from F 1,000 to F 1,500 a person a year (from F 500 to F 750 for children under t en ). Hence- forth, it could be taken up entirely in foreign bank- notes; previously, only half the basic allocation could be in foreign banknotes. May 4. The m in imum value of import transactions subject to domiciliation was raised from F 250 to F 2,500. New regulations about import payments went into effect. Domiciliation normally had to take place before customs clearance, and the import must be effected w i th in three months after domiciliation (except for capital goods). The transfer abroad could, for imports of raw materials, also be made (in cases where no documen tary credit was opened and no remise documentaire was received from abroad) as soon as the importer himself presented the bill of lading to his bank of domiciliation. FRANCE May 12. The Minister of Finance announced an early relaxation of exchange control over current pay- ments and outward direct investment but stated that exchange control over capital movements could not for the time be ing be abolished. May 26. Decree No. 70-441 and an implementing Order were issued concerning the acquisition and ces- sion of intellectual property rights between France and foreign countries. Decree No. 67-82 on this subject was revoked. All contracts or changes in contracts had to be no t i f ied to the Minister of Industrial and Scientific Development w i th in a month after signature. Pre- viously, no t if ica t ion was required two months before a contract entered into force, and the Minister had to give the resident par ty concerned his opinion on it w i t h in 40 days of receipt. June 24. Banks and certain other residents could again grant credit in French francs to nonresidents for the purchase of a single dwelling for personal use in France. The total of such credit to be granted by the seller and a bank was limited, however, to 50 per cent of the purchase price. July 1. In a general revision of credit ceilings, that on the growth of short-term rediscountable export cred- its was raised from 1V> per cent a month, applicable in the first half of 1970, to 2 per cent a month for the second ha lf. July 1. The requirement that authorized banks with net foreign currency positions (position en devises) above certain limits make U.S. dollar deposits with the Bank of France was terminated. The foreign currency positions of the banks ceased to be subject to control and the latter became free to reduce their net liabilities abroad. The foreign exchange position (position de change) remained subject to control. July 16. The import and export of specified iron and steel products in intra-EEC trade was freed from license. The measure was extended to certain other iron and steel products on August 29. July 22. Certain import liberalization measures taken in 1969 and 1970 were extended to the Overseas Departments. July 24. A circular was issued modifying that of March 21, 1969 concerning borrowing abroad. Certain existing exemptions from prior approval for nonbank residents, which made no reference to the currency of the contract, henceforth were limited to borrowings denominated in foreign currency, and most of these exemptions no longer were applicable, in case of bor- rowing of foreign currency for conversion into francs through the French exchange market, if the contract either provided for the possibility of advance repay- ment or did not provide for a period of at least one year between each installment of the borrowing and the 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE corresponding repayment. The effect was that prior authorization was required for all borrowing of French f rancs f r om nonresidents and that borrowing of foreign currency for conversion into French francs was only exempt f rom pr ior approval if repayment was stipu- lated for at least a year after the date of the contract. It was announced that borrowing in francs would be watched closely to prevent excessive interest rates in the Euro-franc market but would not be prohibited. August 3. Nonresident accounts at authorized banks in the names of their foreign correspondents could henceforth be credited again with French banknotes (including those circulating in the Overseas Depart- ments and Territories) mailed direct to the main office of the Bank of France by those correspondents. The Bank of France resumed purchasing at the official exchange rate French banknotes presented by fore ign central banks and commercial banks wishing to convert them into fore ign currency. August 4. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad of F 1,500 a person a year (F 750 for children under 10) could henceforth be taken up twice, i.e., for two trips in a calendar year. The basic exchange allowance for business travel abroad was increased from F 200 to F 300 a person a day (with a maximum of F 2,000 or F 3,000 a t r ip ), depending on destination, to F 400 a person a day, irrespective of destination, with a maximum of F 4,000 per trip. The amount up to which residents could make remittances abroad without indicating their purpose was increased from the equivalent of F 250 a person a year to F 300 a person without restriction as to time; the amounts so transferred no longer were deducted from the basic tourist travel allowance, and a resident could utilize the F 300 facility as often as he wished, provided that it was not used to pay in installments amounts larger than F 300 or to accumulate funds abroad. The amount in French banknotes that residents and nonresi- dents traveling to foreign countries could take out was increased f rom F 200 to F 500 a person a trip, but the limit of F 50 for residents going abroad for less than 24 hours was maintained. The foreign exchange book- let (carnet de change), in which exchange allocations for all foreign travel and for family remittances had to be registered, was discontinued; residents of French nationality could henceforth purchase travel exchange upon production of their identity card, as previously subject to the signing of a declaration (attestation) for the records of the bank selling the exchange and for customs purposes, and provided that in case of tourist travel the purchase was made not more than one month before departure. The amount in foreign bank- notes that residents on business trips could take out, as part of their exchange allocation, was increased from the equivalent of F 250 to F 500. 154 August 4. The administrative treatment of applica- tions to make t ran s fe rs for authorized direct investment in fo re ign countries became more liberal. For petro- leum and m in ing exploration and production, the per- centage that could be transferred abroad was increased f rom 50 per cent to 66.6 per cent of expenditures, while that for which foreign financing had to be found was reduced correspondingly. For commercial invest- ments ( for the marketing and after-sale servicing of manufactured products on ly ), the transfer authorization remained v ir tua l ly automatic for annual programs of up to F 2.5 million but would hencefor th be granted lib- era l ly, on the merits of the case, for larger investments; the processing period for applications for approval to make commercial investments was in practice reduced to one month (although the statutory two-month period for screening by the Treasury was ma in ta ined ). Whereas in the case of industrial investments the transfer for an entire program (covering all foreign countries) pre- viously was authorized only if the program did not exceed F 2.5 million and was limited to F 1.25 million in other cases, the transfer of F 2.5 million would now be allowed for operations amounting to, or exceeding, that sum; the balance would have to be financed by borrow- ing fore ign currency abroad for a period of at least five years. August 29. The 1955 requirement of an "autorisa- tion d'expedition" for exports to North Viet-Nam was abolished. September 1. The special import tax (taxe parafis- cale) on textile products ceased to be levied when the products concerned originated in, or had been cleared through customs in, member countries of the EEC. September 1. New regulations concerning petroleum and petroleum products went into effect, within the framework of the law of March 30, 1928. The princi- pal changes were the following. The quotas fixed for the domestic sale of finished products by individual firms were raised by 7.5 per cent. The obligation for d is t r ibu t ing companies of covering 90 per cent of their requ iremen ts by purchases f rom domestic refineries was abolished. The import regime for gasoline was liberal- ized somewhat, and import restrictions on certain m inor petroleum derivatives were eliminated. Many forma l i t ies were simplified. September 6. A consolidation of the existing import liberalization lists was issued, which included all recent liberalization measures but did not involve additional import liberalization. September 8. An Order was issued mod i fy ing the Order of January 27, 1969 concerning the implementa- tion of Decree No. 67-78. The application of the for- eign investment controls was delegated to the Bank of France in so far as they related to investment in French ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution firms mainly engaged in real estate business and to bor- rowing abroad by such firms. (A circular of September 8 amended accordingly the circular of March 21, 1969 concerning inward and out- ward direct investment. It also revoked a circular of June 13, 1969 concerning the liquidation of direct investments in France, without abolishing the facility provided for by that circular, and amended a circular of October 15, 1969 concerning the granting of guar- antees between residents and nonresidents. Another cir- cular of September 8 amended accordingly the circular of March 21, 1969 concerning borrowing abroad.) September 9. The special exchange allocation for the participation in certain international conventions was increased to the equivalent of F 200 a person a day (subject to a maximum of F 2,000 per t r ip ), irrespec- tive of the country concerned, from F 100 or F 150 a day, depending on the country. September 15. A circular was issued authorizing cer- tain residents to purchase and sell futures on commod- ity markets abroad. Such dealing in futures was only permitted in respect of actual imports of raw materials for their own use by processing manufacturers recog- nized as such by the Customs Administration. Pre- viously, dealing in futures on foreign terminal markets was freely permitted only to transit traders (merchant- ing houses), and such transactions were subject to spe- cific approval, normally granted restrictively, in all other cases. September. COFACE undertook to guarantee new "commercial investments" in foreign countries other than member states of the EEC. Such guarantees were made available to manufacturing firms presenting a project for additional exports, providing that the proj- ect was accepted by the DREE. October 15. The Government undertook to provide investment guarantees covering new private direct investments in French-speaking African countries and the Malagasy Republic. The regulations went into effect FRANCE on Janua ry 13, 1971. They covered also certain expan- sion of existing investments but were not applicable to petroleum or agricultural investment nor to real estate operations or financial operations. The guarantees would be issued by the CCCE and covered by a coun- terguarantee of the Treasury. October 22. Special facilities were introduced for French exporters wishing to undertake market research in Canada or the United States. October 23. The direct control of bank credit (encadrement du credit) was abolished. October 29. The special deductions from the tourist travel allowance if a cruise was made on a foreign- owned ship were terminated. December 4. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1971 the facilities for commercial and indus tr ial investment abroad would be improved. The amount up to which a firm could make transfers for these purposes without requiring individual authoriza- tion was to be raised from F 2.5 million to F 5 million a year. In addition, firms repatriating in 1970 over F 5 million in profits and royalties from their foreign branches and affiliates could dispose of the amount so repatriated for purposes of financing their foreign affiliates. December 4. The Minister of Finance announced certain improvements in export credit facilities. Such credit would in fu ture be available for the entire export claim instead of, as previously, the portion covered by COFACE. The total cost of the credit to the foreign buyer (taux de sortie) would be made as favorable as that of the credit offered by France's competitors. December 17. Customs Decision No. 68-696 was amended to make the controls over the import and export of gold applicable also to gold medals. December 31. The existing preferential import taxa- tion for Algerian, Moroccan, and Tunisian wine was terminated. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Gabonese agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Gabon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Gabon itself are con- sidered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget supervises borrow- ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and out- ward direct investment. Exchange control is adminis- tered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority for current pay- ments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BCEAEC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, Industry, and Development. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an i rThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. 156 Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market—or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAEC bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAEC agency in Libreville by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and Import Payments Some imports are prohibited for security or health reasons. Imports of cement from all sources require special authorization. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France may be made freely. All imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. Global quotas are established for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. A few commodities in the program are subject to ceilings for all non-EEC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries are subject to approval. For many types of pay- ment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000 a person a year (CFAF 75,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be sur- rendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a trip; the Minister of Finance and the Budget may issue exceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Travelers to other coun t r ies may take out any amount in BCEAEC bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try. Gabonese na t iona ls trave l ing abroad must lodge a deposit (repa tr ia t ion guaran tee) with the Treasury; exempt are persons traveling on official business, gov- ernment-sponsored students, and persons tak ing up sal- aried profess ional emp loyment abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to coun t r ies in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and m i n i ng products (except sodium carbona te, manganese, and crude petro- l e um) requ i re licenses. Gold and u r an ium may be exported on ly to France. Exporters may obtain import licenses for add i t ional quantities of commodities inc luded in the import program and essential to their export ac t iv i t ies, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total va lue of their exports du r ing the preceding year. Export t ran sac t ions r e l a t ing to foreign coun t r ies must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in cu r renc ies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds no rma l ly must be received w i th in 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodities at their desti- nation. The proceeds must be collected, and surren- dered if received in a foreign currency, within one mon th of the due date. GABON Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in for- eign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and ou twa rd direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securi- ties in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 2 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquida- t ion of such investments also requires declaration to the M in is try unless the operation involves the relin- q u i s h i ng of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment abroad. Foreign direct investments in G a b o n3 - I n c l u d i ng those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON must be declared to the Minister, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares similar to secu- rities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lend ing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose reg- 158 istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for five categories of treatment. Three of these apply to enterprises established in Gabon and whose activity is limited to the national ter- ritory of Gabon (categories I A, IB, and II, according to the economic importance of the en terpr ise). The other types of treatment apply to enterprises established in Gabon whose market includes the territory of two or more states of the Central Afr ican Customs and Eco- nomic Union —UDEAC —(categories III and IV, depending on the importance of the enterprise). Prefer- ential treatments IA and IB are granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment II is reserved for enterprises of p r ime importance to the country's eco- nomic development and involving exceptionally high investments; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Preferential treatment III includes special import privileges and treatment IV includes, in addition to the privileges mentioned above, the advantage of a found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement). Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Econ- omy, Trade, Industry, and Development, who, after exam in ing the documents, transmits them to the Invest- ment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Coun- cil of Ministers. Preferential treatments IA, IB, and II are granted by decree issued by the Council of Minis- ters. P re fe ren t ial trea tmen ts III and IV are granted by a certification of the UDEAC upon the recommenda- tion of the Council of Ministers. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection aga inst foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and of government contracts. Non- Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 January 1. Law No. 9 / 6 9 ' of December 11, 1969 came into force. It imposed a 5 per cent ad valorem supplementary tax (taxe complementaire) on imports, but a large number of exemptions were set forth in Order No. 120 of December 30, 1969, which also took effect on January 1, 1970. January 23. All firms operating in Gabon were required to establish an office in Gabon. The ruling was reconfirmed by the President on August 19. April 13. Circular No. 1212 was issued concerning the domiciliation in France, by traders resident in Gabon, of imports and exports of merchandise shipped directly from a foreign country to Gabon or from Gabon to a foreign country. Such domiciliation, GABON although now possible, was to remain exceptional and required the approval of the Minister of Finance. June 24. Order No. 6/MINECO stipulated that all imports of cement required authorization by the Direc- torate of Economic Affairs. September 1. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals no longer were permitted to own land in Gabon. October 16. Decree No. 979 amended Decree No. 149 of February 17, 1969. The amount up to which payments to foreign countries could be made freely for any purpose was increased from CFAF 12,500 to CFAF 15,000. The amount of BCEAEC banknotes that travelers to foreign countries could take out was in- creased from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000 a person a trip, and the amount of such banknotes taken out was no longer deducted from the travel allocation. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel to for- eign countries was increased from the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000 a person a year; the portion that could be taken up in foreign banknotes remained at CFAF 50,000. The basic allocation for business travel remained unchanged, but the portion that could be taken out in foreign banknotes was raised from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000. Nonresident accounts in the name of foreign correspondents of authorized banks could again be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, provided that these were mailed direct to the BCEAEC in Libre- ville. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Gambian Pound or £G 1 = US$2.40. The currency- issuing authority is the Gambian Currency Board. In practice, the Board deals only in sterling and charges a commission of %6 of 1 per cent for buying, or 3/s of 1 per cent for selling, based on the fixed rate of <£ stg. 1 = <£G 1. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the par value and in other curren- cies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The commercial banks may authorize sales on currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for permitted imports from outside the Area and, up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, for travel outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to the authorization of the Minis- try of Finance, which is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries out- side the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts While there is legal provision for the commercial banks in The Gambia to maintain designated nonresi- dent accounts (including Blocked Accounts) for resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in fact all accounts are maintained as resident accounts irrespec- tive of the residential status of the account holder. Consequently, nonresident account holders may freely use their accounts for settlements within The Gambia and the Sterling Area, but settlements outside the Area are subject to the same controls as apply to residents of The Gambia; there are no restrictions on credits to such accounts. to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing; the import of rice is in the hands of a consortium of import trading companies under the control of the Government and acting on its behalf. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open Gen- eral License if imported from the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) all countries within the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portu- gal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and (3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Sene- gal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in Gambian pounds or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area requires exchange control authoriza- tion, which is freely given without evidence of importa- tion for any commodity that is covered by a valid spe- cific import license or that does not require a specific license; payment may be effected in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. The commercial banks may authorize payments for invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for transactions related to external trade when such payments are properly due outside the Area. They may also authorize a basic exchange allowance of the equivalent of <£G 300 a person a trip for residents for travel outside the Sterling Area; of this amount, < £G 25 may be taken in currency notes of countries outside the Sterling Area. The basic allowance may be accumulated up to three years. Applications for permis- sion to effect other payments for invisibles in curren- cies of countries outside the Sterling Area are dealt with administratively but liberally by the Ministry of Finance. Irrespective of destination, each traveler leav- ing The Gambia may take out £G 15 in Gambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds The import of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crusta- ceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of all goods to Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open General License. Payment for exports to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six months from the date of export in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency or in a Sterling Area currency from the account of a nonresi- dent of the Sterling Area, i.e., from an External Account held anywhere in the Sterling Area or from an account held in The Gambia. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to the commercial banks. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Out- ward transfers may be effected freely to countries within the Sterling Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Area. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresident investors may apply for an undertaking as to the authorization of applications for the subsequent remittance of profits and repatriation of capital. All other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt with administratively by the Ministry of Finance. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such authorization is normally given freely for the pur- pose of providing working capital to companies regis- THE GAMBIA tered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United King- dom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance; oth- erwise, gold coins and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Nei- ther the Gambian Currency Board nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1970 February 2. The basic exchange allowance for travel outside the Sterling Area was increased from <£G 50 a person a calendar year to <£G 300 a person a trip. July 7, August 3, and September 1. The Government offered special incentives for foreign investment in specified activities. Investments granted a "development certificate" would qualify for a five-year tax holiday, for certain exemptions from import duty, and for a guarantee in respect of the repatriation of profits and capital. July 23. The Currency (Amendment) Act 1969 came into operation. The par value of the Gambian pound was henceforth defined in terms of gold only. The Currency Board was authorized to buy and sell any "convertible external currency" against Gambian pounds at rates which do not differ from parity by more than the margins prescribed by the International Monetary Fund. Previously, the Board was statutorily required to issue and redeem currency against sterling at rates not d iffer ing from parity by more than 3A of 1 per cent. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Exchange System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark or DM 3.66 = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bundesbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.63 buying, and DM 3.69 selling, per US$1. For banks' transactions with their customers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins.1 Market rates for cer- tain other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Germany 2 and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Fourteen other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. In accordance with international understandings, there is an almost total prohibition of payments and transfers to Rhodesia and of trade and capital transactions involv- ing Rhodesia. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on payments, no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents, and no prescription of cur- rency requirements. Residents are not required to repatri- ate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or hold- ings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is oper- ated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fiir gewerbliche Wirt- scha f t ), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Ernahrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstel- len), and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority that would be in charge of any exchange controls that might concern capital transactions. All banks in Ger- many are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of bond issues. Imports and Import Payments Out of a total of some 8,300 statistical items, about 7,600 may be imported free of license from all countries in country lists A and B of the Foreign Trade Law, and 4,760 of the latter items may also be imported free of license from countries in list C.3 Imports not covered by the preceding sentence require licenses, unless they fall under the liberalization measures mentioned in the fol- lowing paragraph. In addition, 285 items are liberalized when originat- ing in European OECD countries and their associated or dependent territories. Certain solid fuels are liberal- ized only when purchased and imported from other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Community; imports of coal from other sources are limited to a global quota. Furthermore, licenses are issued automatically and without restriction as to quantity or country for some 1,500 items that are covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC. The remaining some 520 items (603 statistical positions) covered by that Policy do not require a license when imported from countries in country lists A, B, or C. When imported from non-EEC countries, however, most commodities covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Many agricultural imports, whether covered by EEC regulations or not, are subject to German Marketing Laws; about half of these items may be imported free of license from list A and list B coun- tries. De facto liberalization is extended to certain com- modities (1,527 statistical items) when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, pro- vided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA4 procedure). Imports not subject to licensing require only an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundes- 1On May 9, 1971 Germany announced that, for the time being, it would not maintain the exchange rates for its currency within the established margins. 2 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 3 Countries in list A are those of the former OEEC area; countries in list C are the CMEA countries, mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam; and countries in list B comprise those included neither in list A nor in list C. 4 Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bank, which serves as documentation. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain excep- tions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through the post), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanen t ly open (AMLA procedure). For manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. Payments for imports are free, even if the underly- ing import transaction is still restricted. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transac- tions may, in principle, be carried out freely; but when they involve countries in list C, they are subject to license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely with- out individual license, except to Rhodesia. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments—between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from resi- dents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traffic; transactions with speci- fied countries (which do not grant reciprocal treat- men t) for hull and marine liability insurance and avia- tion insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion-picture films.5 Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be car- ried out freely. For all goods, an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports —mostly strategic goods and agricultural commodities subject to EEC regulations —are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. 5 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speak- ing version or in a German-synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Both claims that have been overdue for more than three months and prepayments must be reported, for statistical purposes, when they exceed DM 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to resi- dents of list C countries (see footnote 3) of construc- tional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu- facture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capi- tal freely without a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. However, a system of voluntary coordination of banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. There is a free gold market in Frankfurt. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhodesia. With this exception, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are legal tender, including sovereigns, are exempt from this tax and from customs duty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Commercial imports and exports of articles 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1970 January 26. The Capital Market Committee decided to advise against early further issues of deutsche mark bond issues by nonresidents. In April, foreign issues were resumed when the Committee suggested a monthly level of about DM 200 million. In September, the Committee recommended an informal ceiling of DM 300 million a month on deutsche mark bond issues by nonresidents and international companies. February 9. The 1970 duty-free quota for imports of hard coal from non-EEC countries was set at 7.2 mil- lion metric tons, as against a basic annual quota of 6 million tons. February 11. The maximum political risk insurance coverage for capital investment abroad, especially in developing countries, was raised from 90 per cent to 95 per cent of the capital invested. In addition, premium charges were reduced from 0.8 per cent to 0.5 per cent per annum. Coverage was extended to equity capital acquired via reinvestment of freely transferable profits up to the equivalent of 50 per cent of the capital investment initially insured. March 6. The Bundesbank imposed, with effect from April 1, an additional minimum reserve requirement of 30 per cent on any increase in banks' liabilities to non- residents over the level of March 6 or the average level for February 7, 15, 23, and 28, 1970. (A 100 per cent minimum reserve ratio on additions to German banks' liabilities to nonresidents had been abolished in Novem- ber 1969, when the minimum reserve ratios to be main- tained by banks on existing liabilities to nonresidents were brought back in line with those against liabilities to residents.) April 7. The self-restraint program for imports of heavy heating oil was relaxed. On December 10, it was decided to suspend the program for 1971. April 25. Additional imports from Poland were de facto liberalized. On May 23, the commodities con- cerned were added to the list of goods that were de facto liberalized when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Rumania. The latter action increased from 4,447 to 5,684 the number of statistical positions that were de facto liberalized for import f rom these countries. On August 22, 4,157 of these statistical positions were formally liberalized and became free of import license for the countries men- tioned as well as all other countries of country list C (see below). May 13. The Bundesbank announced that it would, with effect from June 1, cut the rediscount quotas of credit institutions insofar as they circumvented the 164 additional reserve requirement of March 6 by certain "en pension" transactions with nonresidents or increased their liabilities in respect of the endorsement of bills discounted abroad. June 9. Imports of coke from Western non-EEC countries were exempted from licensing. (Since June 28, 1969 all applications to import coke from countries other than Rhodesia had been granted.) June 15. The Bundesbank began interventions in the forward market in the form of outright sales of forward deutsche mark. July 1. The minimum reserve requirements on banks' liabilities to residents and nonresidents were increased by 15 per cent of the existing ratios. The 30 per cent additional reserve requirement on increases in liabilities to nonresidents remained unchanged. August 12. The Bundesbank decided to increase the banks' minimum reserve requirements with effect from September 1. Increases in liabilities to residents and nonresidents over the April-June 1970 average would be subject to an additional reserve requirement of 40 per cent for sight and time deposits and 20 per cent for savings deposits; total minimum reserves, however, were not to exceed 30 per cent for sight deposits, 20 per cent for time deposits, and 10 per cent for sav- ings deposits. The 30 per cent additional reserve require- ment on increases in liabilities to nonresidents would be abolished on August 31. August 22. Imports of commodities falling under 4,760 statistical positions were formally liberalized, i.e., permitted without an import license, when originating in or purchased in any of the countries of list C (Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam). Coun- try of purchase and of origin did not have to be identi- cal. Included were 520 commodities (603 statistical positions) covered by the EEC's Common Agricultural Policy. All of the other commodities had previously been de facto liberalized when originating in and pur- chased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Rumania. The liberalized commodities would be subject to observation of prices. Procedures for this observation were announced on October 23. August 22. The licensing requirements for exports of less important strategic goods were eased. September 9. When selling domestic money market paper issued by the Federal Government, the Railroads Administration, or the Postal Administration to German credit institutions, the Bundesbank required them to undertake not to sell such paper to nonresi- dents or to use it as collateral for "en pension" bor- rowing from nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY October 21. The reserve requirements were extended to certain previously exempt bank liabilities. The exist- ing exemption from reserve requirements for liabilities resulting from credits that customers obtained abroad through the mediation of a bank was narrowed in scope. For liabilities resulting from interest arbitrage transac- tions, the exemption from reserve requirements was henceforth restricted to thosfe in which only foreign cur- rencies were involved, in which currencies were not changed, and in which borrower, lender, and bank were in no way affiliated. November 17. The Bundesbank took the following decisions. The general minimum reserve requirements of September 1 on increases in banks' liabilities to resi- dents and nonresidents would be abolished on Novem- ber 30. The minimum reserve requirements on existing liabilities to residents and nonresidents were increased by 15 per cent with effect from December 1. The addi- tional reserve requirement of 30 per cent on increases in liabilities to nonresidents, which had been abolished on August 31, was reimposed with effect from Decem- ber 1. The base for the calculation of the 30 per cent reserve on increases in banks' liabilities to nonresidents was changed to the average level of external liabilities between October 16 and November 15; previously, the base had been the average level in the second quarter. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.870897 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian New Cedi or N0 1 = US$0.98. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, which is N0 1 = £0 8s. 2d. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the pound sterling and certain other currencies; it deals in sterling at the fixed rate plus or minus a for- eign exchange commission of l/2 of 1 per cent. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus or minus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control A committee under the chairmanship of the Gover- nor of the Bank of Ghana is responsible for drawing up an annual foreign exchange budget. This committee also prepares the minimum "desirable" import program based on estimated national requirements and a reduced "operational" import program based upon the known available foreign exchange resources. The over- all import plan must correspond to the import ceiling set by the committee in its reduced program. If addi- tional foreign aid not taken into account in the original foreign exchange budget is received, import licenses are issued for the gap between the minimum program and the reduced program. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, to prohibit or regu- late the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be chan- neled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. All contracts providing for the payment of any 166 money by the Government require the approval of the Finance Board. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in new cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area curren- cies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in new cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts from resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in new cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries w i th in the Sterling Area other than Ghana are desig- nated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Ster- ling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for inward payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area 1 Ghana maintains such agreements with mainland China, Cuba, Guinea, U. S. S. R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. The agreements with mainland China, Cuba, and Guinea are at present inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provi- sions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or 'Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- residents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not per- mitted. A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be registered and have to pay a flat registration fee of N0 50 a year. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, as well as certain other commodities of a luxury character, are severely restricted; these are specified in a List of Restricted Imports comprising some 75 items.2 There are ten open general licenses which permit any registered importer to import freely (and normally from any country) the commodities specified in the relevant license. These commodities include most chemicals, spare parts, fertilizers, certain electric machinery, min- eral manufac tures, paper and paperboard, certain food- stuffs, and pharmaceutical products. All other imports require individual licenses, which are issued within the limits of an annual import program; for some, the license must be obtained before orders are placed. Indi- vidual licenses are of two k inds: specific licenses and special unnumbered licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and therefore no transfer of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnum- GHANA bered licenses"; these are not issued for imports in commercial quantities. Import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. In principle, exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana, but certain arrears have arisen. With the exception of aid imports, imports under bilateral payments agreements, and certain other imports for which exemption has been granted by the Ministry of Trade in consultation with the Bank of Ghana, all goods must be imported on credit terms of payable 180 days' after shipment (subject to a maximum interest rate of 6 per cent).3 Commercial banks usually require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Imports of most commodities under open general license are subject to surcharges at rates ranging from 5 to 150 per cent of the c.i.f. value unless imported by or for the use of the Government of Ghana. Some items exempt from surcharge are subject to a develop- ment levy of one new pesewa per pound (which is equivalent to about 10 per cent ad valorem on rice and about 18 per cent on sugar). Many imports are subject to a levy of lll/2 per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, import duty, and other import charges. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. The following categories of payments are normally authorized in connection with the importation of goods: ( 1) the buying commission—this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted from the value of the import license; (2) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import pay- ments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the t rans fer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. With few excep- 2 In addition, certain imports are prohibited, either for reasons of health or public order (absolute prohibitions) or for other reasons (conditional prohibitions); the latter items may under certain circum- stances be imported with special approval. 3 The following items may be imported against sight drafts: rice, sugar, milk, baby foods, corned beef, sardines, salmon, pilchards, and mackerel, from all countries; and beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and liver, when imported from African countries. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA tions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 40 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a maximum of N0 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least N0 1,000; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non- Ghanaian self-employed persons are considered on their individual merits by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, permit- ted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., prof- its after payment of the prevailing 50 per cent tax on companies and of a 7% per cent withholding tax; at present, however, profit transfers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by com- panies that are either foreign-owned or owned or con- trolled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanaians is N055 for each person 18 years of age or over and N0 25 for each person under that age. Foreigners resi- dent in Ghana but domiciled elsewhere in the Sterling Area are allowed up to N0 490 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota (if any). Exchange for business travel is granted up to N0 37 a day, for a maximum of seven days; not more than two journeys a year are allowed. All residents may buy round-trip tick- ets in Ghana to the country of destination, subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, dip- lomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them foreign currency equivalent to N0 122.50, provided that not more than the equivalent of N0 24.50 is taken in banknotes in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to N020 but may be spent only on Ghanaian aircraft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized for- eign currency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohib- ited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are 168 exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board. No spe- cific export licenses are required. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt.4 Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is prohibited, with the excep- tion of the reimportation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval. The Capital Investments Act, which was promulgated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special ben- efits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and uti- lization of productive capacity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employ- ment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. However, certain retail, wholesale, and transportation operations are not open to foreigners. Investments granted "approved status" under this act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allow- ances, etc., are also available for such investments. The act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fair compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop- ment. A Capital Investments Board decides which for- eign investments qualify for benefits under the act. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intes- tacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds repre- senting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and return to their home country are con- sidered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer 4 Early in 1971 an export bonus scheme came into force under which a bonus of 25 per cent of the value of the goods is granted on exports of all goods other than traditional exports (such as cocoa and cocoa products, timber and timber products, and all min- erals), provided that payment was received in convertible currency or the currency of any African country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in registered government bonds, treasury loans, or treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Applica- tions for the transfer abroad of funds by emigrants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, resi- dents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the Ministry of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be car- ried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the mon- etary authorities are not normally licensed; imports for industrial use are very small, a specified commercial bank being the sole importer. The import duty on bul- lion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semirefined form. Exports are free of duties or taxes; the mining corporations are subject to a minerals tax based mainly on profits. Changes during 1970 January 1. The payments agreements with Bulgaria, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia were terminated. January 24. Notice to Importers No. 331 estab- lished that permission would not normally be given for the sale within 12 months of their importation of cars imported under special unnumbered licenses. March 1. A new bilateral payments arrangement with Yugoslavia came into effect. March 12. A number of foodstuffs were placed on GHANA open general license: prepared or preserved fish (sar- dines, salmon, pilchards, and mackerel), baby foods, corned beef, milk, rice, and sugar (crystalline). At the same time, these items were exempted from the 5 per cent ad valorem surcharge. Also, all could henceforth be imported on a sight payments basis and became exempt from the requirement of a commitment form. Previously, imports of these items (except milk, rice, and sugar, for which sight payments had already been allowed) were required to be payable 180 days after shipment. March 20. A bill proposing new banking legislation was submitted to Parliament. It was enacted on July 21 as the Banking Act, 1970. April 8. The bilateral payments agreement with Hun- gary was terminated. July 3. The Loans Act, 1970 came into force. It reg- ulated the raising of local and external loans by the Government and repealed the External Loans Decree, 1968 as well as certain provisions of the Financial Administration Decree, 1967. August 1. The Ghanaian Business (Promotion) Act came into force. Certain economic activities would be reserved for Ghanaian citizens. August 25. The budget statement announced a pro- gram of reducing quantitative import restrictions and of imposing additional import taxation. August 25. The 5 per cent ad valorem surcharge on imports was abolished. In its place, new surcharges were imposed. Goods were classified into five catego- ries: items listed in the first four categories were sub- ject to rates of surcharge of 5, 10, 25, or 40 per cent ad valorem; items listed in the fifth schedule were sub- ject to specific or ad valorem rates ranging from 11 per cent to 150 per cent when imported under open gen- eral license, and a uniform rate of 150 per cent when imported under specific licenses. The ad valorem rates were to be calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the surcharge was payable to the Controller of Customs and Excise when the goods were cleared through cus- toms. Exempt were imports of the Government of Ghana, of diplomatic missions and missions of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, of charita- ble organizations, and under technical assistance schemes. The Minister of Finance was authorized to vary the rates of surcharge if the prevailing economic and financial circumstances of Ghana so required. August 25. Act No. 345 abolished a provision in the customs tariff which had since 1966 enabled approved manufacturers to pay a concessionary customs duty of 5 per cent or 10 per cent on any item which, in the opinion of the Controller of Customs and Excise, con- stituted basic raw materials or other materials for use in manufacturing. At the same time, Act No. 345 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA exempted the following from all customs duties when imported by approved manufacturers: base metals for use in the manufacture of agricultural implements and machinery; materials for use in the manufacture of barbed wire; and chemicals for the production of phar- maceuticals. August 25. It was announced that an export bonus scheme for nontraditional exports was under considera- tion. August 25. A development levy of one new pesewa per pound became payable on imports of certain items included in Open General License No. 10 that were exempt from import surcharge (sugar, rice, and cement). August 25. The future introduction of an import inspection scheme was announced, under which all imports would be inspected before shipment by accredited agents of the Government. August 25. All specific export license requirements were terminated. The completion of exchange control forms for exports was centralized at the commercial banks. September 12. Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and liver could henceforth be paid for on a sight basis when imported from African countries. Jute, which had been importable on sight terms, could again be imported only on 180-day credit terms. September 12. With effect from August 25, the ten open general import licenses were extended to cover a wide range of additional commodities. These included plastic materials; newspapers; materials for use in the timber and mining industries; soaps and detergents; agricultural machinery, including tractors; various other machinery and machine tools; buses, scooters, and bicycles; leather and footwear; meat; certain textile fab- rics, cotton fabrics, and clothing; spare parts; and cement. The coverage of Open General Licenses Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 was made to correspond almost exactly to the five import surcharge categories. No open gen- eral license commitment forms would henceforth be required for any of the items of the ten lists; pre- viously, this form, for many open general license items, had to be obtained from the Controller of Imports and Exports before orders could be placed. September 12. The requirement was terminated that importers of open general license commodities not sub- ject to a commitment form must inform the Bank of Ghana at least two weeks before the import payment was due. September 22. Notice to Importers No. 348 estab- lished that in respect of specified goods (land rovers and jeeps, buses and coaches, trucks and lorries, and chassis with engine mounted) Open General License No. 7 would be applicable only to imports from the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, and France. Previously, all open general licenses were applicable to all countries except those covered by a trading ban. October 17. Imports of raw cotton were placed on open general license. October 17. The import regulations for the year 1971 were published. Applications for specific import licenses were to be filed by November 15, 1970. The List of Restricted Imports was extended to include a few items but a larger number were removed from it, including beef, fish, alcoholic beverages (except beer), toothpaste, soaps, polishes, cement, certain clothing and fabrics, and certain footwear. October 21. It was announced that applications for a reduction or waiver of import surcharges on certain types of agricultural machinery, implements, and appli- ances would be considered, provided that they were intended solely for use by the buyer for agricultural purposes. November 10. Palm oil and coconut oil were removed from the List of Restricted Imports. December 12. Notice to Importers No. 356 estab- lished that with effect from January 1, 1971 two kinds of special import licenses would be issued: "Trade Pact Area Import Licenses" would be available for imports from any of four specified countries (Bulgaria, Poland, Ruman ia, and U. S. S. R . ), while imports from all other countries would be against licenses issued for the Convertible Currency Area. December 14. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Upper Volta. The agreement came into force on May 3, 1971. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma or Dr 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Council. Exchange control policy is made by the Currency Committee, the Credit Committee, and the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee, and import policy is made by the Foreign Trade Council. Exchange control is implemented, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece (the central bank) and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements relat- ing to permitted trade transactions and may grant resi- dents a standard travel allowance. All other exchange payments require the approval of the Bank of Greece. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U. S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for cur- rent transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; bal- ances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a dormant bilateral account for settlement with Chile of nitrate imports. Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any con- version of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a minimum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 6% and 8 per cent per annum according to their term. Particular regula- tions apply to nonresident investors (including Greek nationals permanently residing abroad) enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see sec- tion on Capital, below). They may establish time deposits, for a minimum period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7-8 per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferable at maturity in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control author- ities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, pro- vided that the funds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. Blocked bal- ances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are em- ployed abroad and certain Greek societies and asso- ciations operating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE through the intermediary of a shipping firm established in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 3 per cent per annum for sight deposits, 6%-8 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 6% per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely converti- ble into foreign exchange as long as the holder contin- ues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited and imports of cotton textiles from Hong Kong are suspended. All other imports, except those of goods on Lists P and P-12 with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain com- modities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval, provided that approval is obtained subsequently. The granting of an import approval implies that appropriate foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under proce- dure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries participating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) other than Sweden when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when pay- ment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U. S. aid; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when pay- ment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U. S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for all imports from Sweden, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commod- ities in List A (including gold, certain luxury items, 172 textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain foodstuffs) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on List A no licenses are being issued. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concerning pay- ments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P, P-12, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against ship- ping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P and P-12, there being no time limit for List P but a limit of one year for List P-12 which may be extended for a further six months with the permission of the Bank of Greece). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in the P lists. When time draf ts are accepted, a personal written undertak- ing amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the draft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is re- quired to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1 and F-100/2, further cash deposits of, respectively, 40 per cent and 12 per cent of the c.i.f. yalue are required as security for im- port duties and other taxes. For imports under proce- dure E, this deposit must be made when the import ap- proval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import ap- proval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are re- quired for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment re- quired when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from im- port duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P, P-12, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P, and P-12. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 40 16 20 8 100 40 80 32 40 16 70 56 28 140 112 56 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import du- ties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U. S. aid funds, a further deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any de- posit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days (for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-10071-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of four months from the date on which they were made for a range of specified imports including fabrics, electrical household appliances, and passenger motor vehicles, and for a period of two months for other im- ports. Certain companies, public agencies, and organiza- tions that have been designated as public service insti- tutions are exempt from the advance deposit require- ments. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agen- cies, public entities, and public utility companies. Ex- cept for goods in Lists P and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in List P and P-12. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. GREECE Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (accident and life) are author- ized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Residents going abroad for family reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the equivalent of US$200 for one trip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Exporters and manufacturers are allowed US$20 a day for a maximum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a maximum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or from other businessmen, commercial repre- sentatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Sub-Committee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a max- imum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to de- clare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other val- uables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Nonresi- dent travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes declared upon entry, provided that departure is within three months of arrival; export of larger amounts or any ex- port after a visit of more than three months is subject to general or specific approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports re- quire individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surren- dered within 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are em- powered to extend this period up to two years for man- ufactures and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transac- tions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of fru i t, or wines; such transactions are permitted with mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, and the U. S. S. R. In addition, any commodity may, subject to individual au- thorization, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, mainland China, the Republic of China, and Iran. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior ap- proval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial re- quirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Non- resident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive en- terprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promo- tion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment.3 Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 mil- lion in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legisla- tion mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported; The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan cap- ital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of, the capi- tal, provided, however, that the amount of profits trans- ferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign ex- change earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its 3 This Decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. 174 products abroad. (4) For investments made under Leg- islative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the trans- fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been re- patriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative De- cree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations inay be ap- proved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in en- terprises of special importance to the economy. Speci- fied foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require ap- proval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real es- tate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formal- ity only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license issued by the Min- istry of Commerce; licenses are normally issued to rep- utable importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, with the exception that gold bars or coins brought in by travel- ers and declared upon entry may, with the prior ap- proval of the Bank's Credit Committee, be re-exported by the same person. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1970 January 1. Interest rates on bank credit for both im- ports and domestic trade were raised by 1 percentage point to 11 per cent. January 1. The US$200 travel allowance previously granted for three trips abroad each year was restricted to one trip each year. January 21. A payments agreement with Albania was signed. It entered into force on June 2. February 3. Preferential tariff quotas went into effect for specified industrial goods of U. S. S. R. origin. The relative protocol of December 13, 1969 set the total value of these quotas at US$4,252,000 each year for 1971 and 1972. March 10. The four-month retention period for advance import deposits was applied to some 70 items previously subject to a two-month retention period. April 1. Interest rates paid by banks on time deposits in foreign exchange were raised by 1 percentage point, to 7, 7%, or 8 per cent. April 17. The four-month retention period for ad- vance import deposits on passenger automobiles was extended in operation until September 2, 1970. April 17. Controls over the acceptance of foreign suppliers' credit were relaxed and the classification of commodities for this purpose was revised. The existing Lists P-6 and P-12 (covering items for which credit up to 6 months and 12 months, respectively, could be ac- cepted) were replaced by a List P (covering items for which any term of credit could be accepted, many of them goods previously on the F, F-50, and F-100 lists) and a new List P-12 (covering items for which up to 12 months' credit could be accepted). Some items on the existing Lists P-6 and P-12 were transferred to List F. April 17. Some foodstuffs and certain other items were transferred to List A and became subject to spe- cial import license. May 1. The sixth reduction of import duties in ac- cordance with the Treaty of Association with the EEC took place. Customs duties on products imported from the EEC and not produced in Greece were reduced by 10 per cent, while those on products also produced in Greece were reduced by 5 per cent. Furthermore, the import tariff was subject to a second alignment on the EEC common external tar iff. May 1. Advance deposit rates were reduced for cate- gory F-50/2 imports from 59% per cent to 56 per cent; for F-50/3 from 35 per cent to 28 per cent; for F-100/2 from 119 per cent to 112 per cent; and for F-100/3 from 70 per cent to 56 per cent. GREECE transformers May 23. The Minister of Coordination instructed the public sector to give preference to the clearing countries when purchasing machinery and equipment abroad. June 13. Certain types of motors and were transferred to List A. July 1. The interest rate allowed on foreign credits for imports was limited to 4 per cent above the prevail- ing discount rate in the country of the supplier, with a ceiling of 10 per cent per annum. July 8. The export without special approval of for- eign banknotes by nonresident travelers was limited to US$500 a person if departure was within three months of arrival; exports of larger amounts or any export af ter a visit of more than three months became subject to specific approval. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by m a il was prohibited. Conversion of for- eign currency into drachmas henceforth could take place only through banks. July IS. Cream, lucerne flour, and dry batteries were transferred to List A. August 20. Legislative Decree No. 608/1970 permit- ted the establishment in Greece of closed-end mutual funds. Twenty per cent of their portfolio could consist of foreign securities. Advertising and sales in Greece by foreign mutual funds required prior approval by the Ministry of Trade and the Capital Market Committee. September 3. It was announced that the preferential interest rate incentives for exporters would be rein- forced with effect from January 1, 1971. September 9. Nonresidents purchasing government bonds with foreign currency could henceforth obtain the necessary drachmas at parity instead of, as pre- viously, at the prevailing buying rate for the currency concerned. October 10. Export procedures were simplified by transference to the Bank of Greece of authority to issue export licenses for a wide range of products. November 6. The facilities allowing nonresidents to maintain time deposits in convertible foreign currencies were expanded as follows. Nonresidents were permitted to make time deposits in foreign exchange for a mini- mum period of 90 days with authorized banks; interest rates on the deposits ranged between 6% and 8 per cent per annum, according to their term. Banks receiv- ing such deposits no longer had to transfer the foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Deposit accounts in foreign exchange could be maintained jointly with one or more residents or other nonresidents. November 16. The four-month retention period for advance deposits on passenger automobiles was ex- tended in operation indefinitely. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal or Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for cer- tain other currencies * on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund maintained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invis- ibles are normally settled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensation Centroameri- cana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Depart- ment of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empow- ered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central American countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poultry, wheat flour, and used trucks and trailers. Imports of soluble coffee are prohibited. Within 8 days after confirmation, im- porters must register with the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports origi- nating from Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement.) Import- ers must effect their registered imports during the 90- day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require ex- 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 176 change licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submission of the registration form and the shipping documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for spec- ified imports f rom Central American countries. Pay- ments for imports which have to be fully or partially prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepay- ment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the nature of the transaction; the deposit is refunded when the goods ar- rive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the original shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from customs must be obtained from the Exchange Department or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed ad- vertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the Gen- eral Treaty for Central American Economic Integra- tion. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The cus- toms officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrep- ancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports from Central American countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Ex- change Department, giving a description of the mer- chandise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertook to pay in the fu tu re. If these forms are com- pleted at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported from countries with which Guatemala has an unfavora- ble trade balance. On December 31, 1970, this sur- charge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.2 This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in 2 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethio- pia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Mala- gasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nether- lands, Pakistan, Philippines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed uniform tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purposes of checking capital transac- tions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require authorization by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for cur- rent invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to verify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely, as is the repayment of registered loans. For certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange allowance equiva- lent to Q 50 a day up to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person a trip for tourist travel abroad. Minors not trav- eling alone are entitled to half the adult allowance. The exchange allocation for business travel is Q 750 a person for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexi- can border towns, and Q 2,500 a trip for journeys to other parts of the world. All international air passages (with the exception of those for travel within Central America) are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for family maintenance is Q 250 a month for each relative (Q 200 for persons under 18), up to a maximum of Q 1,000 a month for each beneficiary family. In addi- tion, remittances of income from property or funds invested in Guatemala (other than foreign investment) and remittances of pensions, annuities, etc., are au- thorized up to Q 250 a month a person, up to Q 1,000 a month for each beneficiary family. Foreign technical personnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their entire family or part of their family resides abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently may, sub- ject to individual approval, transfer their savings up to the full amount of their earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is GUATEMALA not prohibited; however, Guatemalan banknotes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, or Nicaragua. For these coun- tries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly con- versions into U. S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Hon- duras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods in- cluded in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from this require- ment; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a full descrip- tion of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Depart- ment issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on con- signment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an author- ized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Certain export industries financed with foreign loans, however, may be permitted under the terms of specific foreign exchange agree- ments with the Monetary Board to retain a portion of export proceeds abroad to cover amortization of the loans. Exports of meat to the United States are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of Guatemalan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All investment by foreign 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified overall amount a year, it must meet certain minimum quality and financing standards, and the sales value of a housing unit must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments require exchange licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amor- tization of foreign loans. Transfers abroad of resident- owned capital are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, commercial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Gold Residents must sell to the Bank of Guatemala any gold in their possession. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guatemala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Monetary Board. The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it. The Bank also sells domestic and imported gold to domestic artistic and industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1970 March 5. A swap agreement was signed by the cen- tral banks of Guatemala, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. The swap facility was for the equivalent of US$5 million. August 1. Restrictions on payments for certain cur- rent invisibles were relaxed, while the regulations con- cerning capital transfers remained unchanged. The principal measures were the following. (1) The exchange allocation for tourist travel was raised from the equivalent of Q 2,500 a person a year (Q 300 a person a trip for travel in Central America) to Q 2,500 a person a trip for all destinations. (2) The allocation of Q 300 a person a trip for business travel in Central America was raised to Q 2,500 a person a trip, i.e., the standard allocation for other parts of the world. (3) The 100 per cent quetzal deposit that resident tourists were required to lodge with the Bank of Guatemala when purchasing travel exchange was abolished. (4) The maximum allocation for family remittances was raised from Q 700 to Q 1,000 a month for each benefi- ciary family, and higher amounts could be authorized for physically or mentally disabled persons. (5) Certain remittances formerly included under family remittances were authorized up to the equivalent of Q 250 a person a month, subject to a limit of Q 1,000 a month for each beneficiary family. These were remittances arising from rents, profits, interest, or dividends derived from property located in Guatemala or from funds invested in Guatemala (except foreign investment), and remit- tances of annuities, pensions, etc. (6) The monthly allo- cation for boarding and other expenses of students abroad was raised from Q 200 to Q 250. (7) The facil- ities for remittances for foreign technicians working in Guatemala were improved. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency (introduced on March 1, 1960) is the Gui- nean Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 44.44 = 1 French franc and GF 246.853 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are GF 246 and GF 272 per US$1, respectively. These rates apply to all types of transactions and include a bank commission. Clearing account transactions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 247 per US$1. The buying rate for travelers checks is GF 243 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea; this authority has been delegated to the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. The Minister of Financial Affairs is charged with supervi- sion over the Central Bank. All settlements with for- eign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Commerce (State Secretariat of Foreign Trade) after applications have been screened by the National Licens- ing Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible currencies.2 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, Bul- garia, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Mali, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U. S. S. R., United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There is also a compensation arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. Some of the agreements are inopera- tive. Those with Mali and Yugoslavia were terminated in January 1971. 2 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Congo za'ires, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Libyan pounds, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Sudanese pounds, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, after applications have been screened and approved by the National Distribution Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Most imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibilities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Licensing Com- mission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea—e.g., imports made by foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the Sifra Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Seven- Year Plan. All commercial imports other than those by the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in various types of com- merce. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the Fria Company. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each application is consid- ered individually. There is a basic allocation for busi- ness travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on official mis- sions are permitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in Africa and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside Africa. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GF 190,000 to pay for fares connected 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA with the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, pro- vided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 40,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be trans- ferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kil- ogram of pineapples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus fruit exported. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are single. In practice, how- ever, all expatriate workers employed by the public sector are permitted to transfer up to 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries. Expatriate workers employed by the private sector may transfer abroad 25 per cent of their net monthly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single; in practice, the transfer of up to 30 per cent is permitted. The export of Guinean currency is pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Commerce establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Licensing Commission. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the fol- lowing commodities: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only 180 when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately after they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Com- pany are made by a state institution, Guinexport. For- eign planters are granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). All export proceeds must be surrendered; however, the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are allowed to retain 66% per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of their export earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresi- dent travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 50/AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against nationaliza- tion for foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accruing from the liquidation of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 150 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 January 1. Decree No. 361 of August 12, 1969 went into force. The import duty (droit unique d'entree) was replaced by a double levy, i.e., a customs duty (droit de douane) and a fiscal duty (droit fiscal). GUINEA 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Exchange Rate Ssytem The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar or G$2 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 = £1 and is freely convertible into sterling at this rate, sub- ject to banking commissions. The central bank nor- mally deals only in Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U. S. dollars. In its dealings in sterling with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of %6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and %« of 1 per cent on outward transfers (% of 1 per cent, buying and selling, for East Carib- bean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars). The commercial banks' charges for sterling, U. S. dollars, and Canadian dollars are %6 of 1 per cent buying and % of 1 per cent selling. Their buying and selling rates for East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars are % per cent either side of parity. The commercial banks base the rates for currencies other than sterling, East Carib- bean dollars, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and Jamaica dollars on the current London market rates. Guyana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance, who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, how- ever, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing generally is the responsibil- ity of the Ministry of Trade; imports from CMEA countries and mainland China as well as all imports of specified goods are made only by the External Trade Bureau, a department of the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Guyana is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside 1 Guyana's exchange control regulations define the Sterling Area as excluding Rhodesia. 182 the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any non-Sterling Area currency, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Ster- ling Area, or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any non-Sterling Area currency (in any specified currency 2 for export proceeds) or in sterling or Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may maintain accounts in Guyana dollars in Guyana. These are treated in the same way as the Guyana dollar accounts of residents of Guyana; thus, no exchange con- trol permission is required for transfers within the Ster- ling Area. There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana or other parts of the Sterling Area: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited; for some goods, the prohibition is not applicable when they originate in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Imports subject to individual licensing are specified in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, certain chemicals, detergents, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain-milling machin- ery, radios, and appliances. The granting of individual 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while the others are licensed freely. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries of origin except Albania, Bulgaria, main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R.; import quotas for commodities originating in these countries are based on the value of imports from them in 1964. The External Trade Bureau, a department of the Ministry of Trade, has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities from all sources and over all imports from the state trading countries mentioned. For certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documen- tary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted only for transactions exceeding C$240. Imports of all commodities not exempt from import duty are subject to a defense levy of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to other countries of the Sterling Area are permitted freely without limit. All payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which, except for amounts in excess of the standard allocation for tourism, is given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666) ,3 for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each child), for education at uni- versities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each student), and for family maintenance (G$4,800). Resi- dent and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$3 per person. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area cur- rency notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Export and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice to non-Caribbean coun- tries may only be made by the Guyana Rice Corpora- tion. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified 'This allocation may be accumulated up to G$2,000 for any three- year period. GUYANA currencies (see footnote 2 ), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Residents of the Sterling Area may freely invest in Guyana and repatriate their capital at any time in a Sterling Area currency. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area must obtain "approved status" for new invest- ments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remit- ted and that upon liquidation of the investment the proceeds, including any capital increments, may be repatriated in full in non-Sterling Area currency. The export of capital to non-Sterling Area countries by residents is not normally permitted. Specified cur- rencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an author- ized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guy- ana for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1970 During the year, a number of commodities pre- viously on open general license were made subject to specific import licensing. January 1. The local investment requirements for life insurance companies operating in Guyana were raised significantly. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA February 2. The East Caribbean Currency Authority became a party to the intraregional settlements agree- ment between the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago. Hence this agreement was extended to include the East Caribbean dollar issued on behalf of Barbados, the Leeward Islands, and the Windward Islands. February 18. Certain local manufacturing industries were granted duty-free entry for their raw material im- ports. March 10. A number of goods became subject, whether imported or locally produced, to a consump- tion tax by virtue of the Consumption Tax Order, 1970. April 18. All trade with Portugal, including mer- chanting trade in either direction, was prohibited. A subsequent amendment specified that the term Portugal included all territories under Portuguese administration. July 9. The External Trade Bureau began operations. All orders for imports from CMEA countries and mainland China had to be placed through the Bureau. July 18. Exports of copper wire or scrap, unless ef- fected by the Guyana Telecommunications Corpora- tion, required a special license issued by the Minister of Home Affairs. August 16. The Government announced its intention to acquire majority participation in the exploitation of all natural resources. November 30. The Government announced plans to acquire an immediate controlling interest in the bauxite industry. December 16. The External Trade Bureau was given a monopoly over the import of a number of foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals and of caustic soda, cement, and sulphuric acid. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde or G 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applica- ble to all transactions. In addition to the gourde, the U. S. dollar is legal tender. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commissions; those by the National Bank with the commercial banks and specified customers are free from such commissions but are subject to a stamp tax of %o of 1 per cent. On December 22, 1953, Haiti noti- fied the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control legislation and no obli- gations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, import licenses are not required. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and Japan, however, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authori- zation is also required for imports from any aource of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments rea- sons. In principle, payments abroad may be made freely, but certain payments are in arrears. Importers opening letters of credit at the National Bank are usually required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain imports are subject, in addition to the applicable import duty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value; goods subject to the 4 per cent or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers must also pay an "econimic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except coffee require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Coffee exports are shipped through the Federation of Haitian Coffee Exporters. Export authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic sup- plies are low. Exports of essential oils are restricted to maintain compliance with quality standards. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Export- ers must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, payments for invisibles are not restricted, but certain arrears exist at present and exchange allocations are made on a daily basis. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U. S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to formal exchange con- trol, but certain arrears have arisen in recent years and in practice exchange allocations for outward transfers of resident-owned funds are severely curtailed. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Permission is not usually granted to nonresidents for investments in hand icraft industries. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks oper- ating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a minimum of 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of a law of August 31, 1942, the National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the form of coin, mineral, dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of Finance as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. A limited number of gold coins were issued in 1967 and sold mostly to nonresidents; these coins are legal tender. Changes during 1970 January 30. A surtax of US$0.01 a pound on coffee exports was introduced. February 2. The tax on coffee for export was increased by US$1.20 a bag. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles HONDURAS The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, or L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatema- lan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical pur- poses, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Hon- duras may do so only with the Central Bank of Hon- duras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be set- tled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America to fos- ter the process of economic integration of their coun- tries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange con- trol, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negoti- ate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange con- trol. However, by virtue of Decree No. 73 of Octo- ber 30, 1969, the authorization of the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance is required for all activities implying the transfer abroad of capital. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The commercial banks and other credit institu- tions require the approval of the Central Bank to con- tract any foreign indebtedness. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jew- elry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1970 March 5. A swap agreement was signed by the cen- tral banks of Honduras, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua- temala, Nicaragua, and Venezuela. The swap facility was for the equivalent of US$5 million. December 31. With effect from January 1, 1971, De- cree No. 97 made the external customs tariff of the Central American Common Market applicable to im- ports from all sources. Also from January 1, 1971, the 30 per cent import surcharge imposed under the Proto- col of San Jose on imports from outside the Central American Common Market was abolished, as was the consumption tax of 10 per cent or 20 per cent. (With effect from January 16, 1971, Decision No. 23 of the President of the Republic introduced a system compris- ing import controls, controls over borrowing abroad, and registration of export proceeds.) 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar or HK$6.06061 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates; as far as rates for the U. S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On December 31, 1970, rates in the official market were HK$14.530 buying, and HK$14.614 selling, per <£ stg. 1, or HK$6.046 buying, and HK$6.116 selling, per US$1; rates in the free mar- ket on that date were HK$6.0825 buying, and HK$6.0838 selling, per US$1. The official market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling- Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U. S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Some 50 banks are authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or gen- eral approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is op- erated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the following paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong from, residents of other parts of the Ster- ling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the fol- lowing: (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an 188 authorized bank or for the settlement of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide family remit- tances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to main- land China, the Republic of China, and Macao is per- mitted; imports from these territories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The pro- ceeds of exports to all other countries outside the Ster- ling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling from an External Ac- count held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency emanating from outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be sur- rendered to an authorized b a n k ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling Area. However, U. S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Repub- lic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be sur- rendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area (except main- land China, the Republic of China, and Macao, as noted above) may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency, provided that the in- coming payment is received in a Sterling Area currency f rom an External Account or in a foreign currency from outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Subject to certain requirements, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied w i th, authorized banks may, on applica- tion by merchants in Hong Kong undertaking a trans- action in goods for their own account, make payment to nonresidents of the Sterling Area for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling Area of goods orig- inating outside the Sterling Area. Such payments may be made in sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an Exter- nal Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency, pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vided that such currency has not been acquired in the Hong Kong free market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated in the same manner as accounts of residents of Hong Kong), those of rec- ognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be over- drawn or be debited for any payment outside Hong Kong, i The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for gold and certain dutiable or dangerous commodities, imports are free of license. If the pre- scription of currency requirements are fulfilled, and if related shipping documents are presented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of coun- tries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding <£ 10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U. S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be pur- chased in the free market. Imports from mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account), and exchange control approval is not required. *Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control authorities for special per- mission to open an External Account. 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. HONG KONG An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, pay- ment is required in advance of shipment,3 and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of cur- rency requirements; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export, and ( 3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding <£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange con- trol form is required when the payment does not ex- ceed ,£100 or the equivalent). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is normally granted. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for resi- dents (for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is £250 or the equivalent for each indi- vidual journey. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control authorities. In any event, payments may b£ made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold and certain stra- tegic goods are subject to restrictive licensing; there are also a number of bilateral agreements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, other than mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of cur- rency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control authorities. The U. S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Repub- lic of Korea of goods originating in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely disposable to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and 3 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the con- signment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds from exports must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding <£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, from other parts of the Ster- ling Area require permission. When freight and insur- ance on exports that have originated in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Repub- lic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed with U. S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U. S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U. S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U. S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign capital is normally provided at the official mar- ket rate if prior exchange control approval for the in- vestment has been given. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free market. However, licenses are required for all receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed £-500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for HONG KONG all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Gold There is a free market for gold in which nonresi- dents who are not resident in Sterling Area countries may freely deal among themselves in bars and coins; settlements must take place in Hong Kong dollars or U. S. dollars through the free exchange market. Deal- ings in this market between Hong Kong residents also are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Financial Secretary. Imports and exports of bullion are not permitted, but transshipment to legitimate desti- nations is permitted. Imports and exports of gold jewelry not constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Director of Commerce and Indus- try. Unless an import license has been granted, residents other than the monetary authorities are not permitted to purchase gold outside Hong Kong; export licenses are granted only for gold, other than jewelry, in transit. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong but not outside. Changes during 1970 January 15. With approval of the Government, the Hong Kong gold market resumed trading in gold of 99 per cent fineness; previously trading was limited to gold of 94.5 per cent fineness. June 5. The time limit for submission of import, ex- port, and re-export declarations was extended from 4 days to 14 days and penalties were introduced for late submission. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0100985 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona or IKr 88.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 87.90 buying, and IKr 88.10 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed; the buy ing and selling rates maintained for the currencies concerned by the Central Bank of Iceland differ from their parities by 0.12 per cent buying and 0.14 per cent selling for clearing kronur, and the rate for clearing dollars is IKr 87.90 buying and IKr 88.10 selling. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting the Central Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters con- cerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsi- ble for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Cen- tral Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Com- merce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area. All settle- ments with countries with which Iceland ma in ta ins bilat- eral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as follows: with Rumania and the U. S. S. R., in Icelandic kronur, and with Eastern Germany, in U. S. Dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area and with Brazil are made in U. S. dollars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their respective curren- cies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The individual opening of nonresident accounts requires approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U. S. dollars, ster- ling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or sub- ject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely (and, with minor exceptions, without an import license) from any coun t ry ;l about 90 per cent of total imports (1969 basis) is liberalized. Some 30 commodi- ties or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Seven of these commodities are admitted, subject to ind iv idual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilat- eral payments agreements.2 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discre- tionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from the U. S. S. R. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are in principle issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely upon application for global quota items. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alco- holic beverages. Furthermore, fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agri- cultural Production Board in accordance with a govern- ment authorization. None of these commodities, how- ever, is subject to quantitative restriction. 1The liberalized commodities include agricultural commodities that are purchased from the United States under a P. L. 480 agreement. In order to ensure the implementation of the agreement, the author- ized banks are empowered to control the foreign exchange allocations for purchases of these commodities. 2 For these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND For imports from all sources, a fee of % of 1 per cent (minimum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The commercial banks normally require certain advance deposits in connection with import transactions. Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to ship- ment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, for- eign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port, except for specified nonessential goods (including motor vehicles for personal use, when imported from convertible currency countries). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permis- sion by an authorized bank, while foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authori- zation. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, tele- . graphic, and telephone services), for banking commis- sions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transac- tions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 21,000 (about US$240) a person for one trip a year (IKr 10,500 for children); if a second trip is made in the same calen- dar year, an additional allocation of 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance busi- ness operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usually is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. 192 Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The ship- ping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Export charges of 5.0-11.2 per cent are levied on the f.o.b. value of all fish products. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the author- ized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. There are no limitations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to individual approval. The participation by non- residents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circum- stances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production proc- ess is lengthy, the import of construction materials, and so forth. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for personal use (when imported from convertible cur- rency countries),3 various household appliances, speci- fied foods, various types of clothing, precious and semi- precious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the pur- pose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by resi- dents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and secu- rities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licens- ing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, sub- ject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. However, citizens returning to Iceland after a period of residence abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1970 January 1. The global quotas for 1970 went into effect. They covered seven commodities or groups of commodities. January 1. The license fee for import applications was made applicable also to clearing countries. The license fee for imports of petroleum products was reduced to 0.1 per cent. February 13. An amendment to Law No. 41/68 went into effect. Licenses to operate business firms, which 8 Suppliers' credit for up to three months is allowed on automo- biles imported from Eastern European clearing countries. ICELAND were previously restricted to Icelandic nationals, could be granted irrespective of nationality. March 1. Iceland became a member of EFTA. A timetable for the removal of protective customs duties and quantitative restrictions on industrial products of EFTA origin other than petroleum and petroleum products started to operate; protective duties-on such products were immediately reduced by 30 per cent. Customs duties were also reduced on many industrial raw materials and certain machinery from all most- favored-nation sources. The dismantling of import restrictions would take place on a global GATT-wide basis. Imports of certain commodities were fully lib- eralized for all GATT members, global quotas for cer- tain other goods were increased, and global quotas were announced for certain goods previously subject to dis- cretionary licensing. The general sales tax was raised from 7.5 per cent to 11 per cent (12.1 per cent where the importer is also the end-user). The special license fee of 15, 45, or 60 per cent of the f.o.b. value on imports of automobiles from all sources was abolished. May 8. The allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of IKr 17,600 a person a year to the equivalent of IKr 21,000 a person a trip a year; for a second trip in the same calendar year an additional allocation of 50 per cent of the basic alloca- tion could be obtained. The exchange allocation for participants in inclusive tours or group travel was increased from IKr 8,600-10,000 to IKr 12,000 a person. The exchange allowance for travel agencies for inclusive tours and group travel to Spain was increased from IKr 500 to IKr 600 a day, i.e., the level already applicable to other countries. June 1. A new trade agreement with Hungary entered into force. The existing payments agreement was terminated and payments henceforth were effected in convertible currency. October 1. Revised payments arrangements with Brazil entered into force. A credit agreement between the Central Banks of Iceland and Brazil, replacing the payments agreement of September 1, 1968, provided for settlements on a U. S. dollar basis. Previously, set- tlements were channeled through accounts denominated in pounds sterling. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee or Rs 7.50000 = US$1. Transactions in foreign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as follows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot transactions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of non-Sterling Area currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted trans- actions in certain currencies x against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1970, market rates for tele- graphic transfers on New York were US$13.24 buying, and US$13.23 selling, per Rs 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Applica- tions to make direct investments in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries,2 and the Convertible Account group (all other countries). Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special payments arrangements with Afghanistan, the Sudan, and the United Arab Republic for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis within specified ceilings. The State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement with the Tunisian agency OCET for balancing purchases of specified commodi- ties. 194 of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India.3 Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Pay- ments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or any other Sterling Area cur- rency to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts from the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency, in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United King- dom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of ster- ling from the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for trans- fers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (in- cluding bank s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of countries in the Sterling Area, or when the transferor account is of a country in the Convertible Account group and the transferee account is of a country either in the same group or in the Sterling Area. Transfers may be made from Con- 3 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to mainland China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Bel- gium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U. S. sovereignty. 6 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. foreign their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling A r ea Accounts and between Sterling A r ea Accounts. A ll other entries on Sterling A r ea Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts, w i th the exception of debits by way of payments to residents, require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without pr ior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresi­ dent banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the L i fe Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an ap­ proved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv idual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an In­ dian national, maturity proceeds of a ll types of securi­ ties as we ll as sale proceeds of securities sold on the stock exchange may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder ( in the case of a joint account, any of the account holders) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may freely credit sale and maturity proceeds of a ll types of securities, provided that the securities had been originally purchased either out of proceeds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made at the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as we ll as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad, with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; a ll taxes due from the ac­ count holder in India; contributions to the Na t ional Defence Fund, the Pr ime Minister's Na t ional Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and de­ pendents in India; investment in Indian Government se­ curities and in units issued by the U n it Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the ac­ count holder while temporarily resident in India. F or ordinary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin w i th balances in excess of Rs 50,000, as we ll as blocked accounts of such persons, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week during their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to INDIA Rs 10,000 annually may be debited for any purpose during an account holder's stay in India. Other credits and debits require the pr ior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from non­ resident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally cred­ ited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in Na t ional Defence Remittance Scheme (Special) Accounts repre­ senting rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on M ay 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be i n­ vested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with bal­ ances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any pay­ ments in India. Nonresident (External) Accounts may freely be opened by banks in India for private persons of Indian nationality or or ig in resident outside India. They may be freely credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder. They may also be credited, after ap­ proval by the Reserve Bank, with funds from any other nonresident account of the holder, provided such funds are eligible for remittance. The accounts may be freely debited for disbursements in India and for transfer abroad, with the proviso that holders resident in the Sterling A r ea may not make transfers outside the A r e a. Interest is exempt from income tax and freely transfer­ able. There are also blocked accounts, to wh ich are cred­ ited capital proceeds and payments that are due to non­ residents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount a l­ lowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities (including approved shares quoted on the stock exchange); the income derived from such in­ vestments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. F or Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities pr ior to January 1, 1963, net income from investments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in fu l l. F or those granted such facilities between January 1963 and A p r il 1968, remittances of income from assets left behind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any k ind is remittable to persons who obtained emigration facilities after A p r il 30, 1968. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Imports and Import Payments Specified raw materials required by certain export industries and other importers may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically all other im- ports require individual licenses. Imports of specified raw materials, spare parts, and components required by key and priority industries, including small-scale indus- tries, and by units in other industries that had an ex- port performance of 10 per cent or more of their pro- duction during the previous year, are licensed liberally. Licenses for raw materials and components are issued on a continuing basis generally by way of importers claiming replenishment of goods actually consumed dur- ing a period of not less than three and not more than six months. As for spare parts, licenses are issued annually on the basis of prescribed percentages of the c.i.f. value of the imported machinery and of indigenous machin- ery having imported components. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits from par- ticular countries. However, a greater preference with respect to the permitted origin of imports is accorded to actual users with specified minimum export perform- ance. Individual licenses may be used (1) ad hoc, (2) on the basis of quotas allocated to established import- ers in accordance with their imports in a base period, (3) to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and Tibet; imports from these countries are prohibited.7 Such li- censes are referred to as General Currency Area Licen- ses, as distinct from Specific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other supplies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Li- censes are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- stuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for various categories of importers. The import program for the period end- ing March 31, 1971 contains a prohibited list8 of 465 commodities and a list of 185 items that are licensed on a "restricted basis," i.e., in minor amounts and only 7 The importation from Nepal of commodities originating in coun- tries other than Nepal or India also is prohibited. 8 Imports of certain prohibited items are permitted either ad hoc or under the import replenishment scheme. 196 if comparable domestic products either are not avail- able or are inadequate. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. Licenses in excess of Rs 10,000 issued to established importers are subject to the condition that remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of the license in the first six months of the va- lidity period of the license. This condition is not im- posed on actual users, to whom licenses are issued to cover their six months' or annual requirements. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fulfill government contracts and for irrigation proj- ects. Favored treatment in allocating foreign exchange for imports of capital goods and equipment is given to 26 "key" industries and 48 "priority" industries. An import replenishment scheme enables registered exporters to obtain specified raw materials and other items needed for their export production; these commodities include cer- tain items whose import otherwise is banned. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their poten- tial for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the avail- ability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted until Indian producers have been publicly invited to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are dispro- portionately expensive or unacceptable for other rea- sons, or when no offers are received within 45 days. For certain types of steel castings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. A special fee is levied on a voluntary basis on imports of long-staple cotton. Where a valid import license is held, the required ex- change is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license. Li- cense holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submit- ted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Re- serve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceuti- cal products, corkwood, timber, raw cotton, cashew nuts, and most fertilizers, is reserved for the Govern- ment or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation (MMTC). In addition, imports of natural rubber, sul- phur products, vitamins, and antibiotics are normally arranged under the auspices of the STC. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution including the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre (IRMAC). Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obli- gations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian resi- dents are prohibited from taking out life insurance pol- icies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to trans- fer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabili- ties in India have been cleared, except where such repatriation rights have been voluntarily surrendered. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration facilities. For persons who have been granted emigration facili- ties after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship no re- mittance of income is allowed. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms established on or after March 1, 1969 without the prior approval of the Reserve Bank are not allowed. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such re- mittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a maximum of Rs 2,360 a month. Requests for the remittance of higher amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or edu- cation abroad are considered on an individual basis and require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, however, residents are permitted without "P form" formalities to travel abroad once every three years; if traveling by Indian carrier on a roundtrip ticket, they are entitled to for- eign exchange up to US$100 or its equivalent. The scheme is applicable to all destinations except Ceylon, Mauritius, and Nepal. Under a Mauritius Travel Scheme, substantially the same facilities are available, INDIA however, for travel to Mauritius. There are no other facilities for tourist travel. The schemes mentioned do not preclude access to other travel facilities (for pur- poses such as business travel or attendance at confer- ences or seminars, etc.) that may be approved under normal procedures. Travel agents and airlines and steamship companies are not permitted to book pas- sages abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in India) unless the traveler is eligible under the Foreign Travel Scheme or the Mauritius Travel Scheme, has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank, or has been spe- cifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.9 The export of Indian currency notes and coins ex- cept to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck pas- sengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Ceylon or Pakistan may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes (within the limit of Rs 30 for Indian and foreign currency notes combined). Resi- dents may take out foreign notes and coins up to <£3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person; authorized money-changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of <£3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person to all passen- gers, whether Indian or foreign, but not to deck pas- sengers or travelers proceeding to Ceylon, Pakistan, Nepal, or Bhutan, or to transit passengers or passengers holding open-dated tickets (including return tickets) issued outside India. Travelers to Pakistan may take Pakistan rupees in notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person; travelers to Ceylon may take <£ 1 10s. Od. a person. Nonresidents may take out the foreign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a li- cense. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and Tibet are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of 9 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, how- ever, for the following: deck passengers to or from Burma, Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Pakistan, Persian Gulf ports, or East Africa; UN staff members and their families whose tickets are purchased by or on instructions from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official duty; travel between India and Paki- stan by persons holding restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or India-Pakistan passports; air travel between Madras/Tiruchirapalli/Trivandrum and Colombo, Ceylon; and travel between Nepal and India. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received in and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currencies 10 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to re- tain them, or the holdings are the balance on July 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by him, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surren- dered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some major exports, including jute manufactures, are subject to export duties. Exports of mica, tobacco, and lac are subject to minimum prices. Some exports re- ceive cash assistance ranging from 3 to 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value; they are mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods. The cotton textile industry receives grants-in-aid. An import replenishment scheme provides certain import licensing facilities for producers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies10 must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Persons coming to India from Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to an authorized money- changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an investment requir- 10 Canadian dollars, U. S. dollars, most Western European curren- cies (including sterling), Djibouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan dir- hams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 198 ing the prior approval of the Indian Government. All applications for foreign direct investments in India are screened by the Foreign Investment Board. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and cor- respondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank to finance their normal business operations in India and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. For- eign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repatri- ation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repa- triated at any time; the public has been advised, however, to obtain the Reserve Bank's prior approval before effect- ing a sale when repatriation of the assets may exceed Rs 1 million. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Local borrow- ing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partnership firms or corporate bodies to accept appointment as agents or technical advisors. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In exceptional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emi- grant's assets and income are blocked and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities con- cerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted \o hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach pf the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nationals, who are private persons are not normally permitted to pur- chase securities outside India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold In India, detailed control is exercised over the manu- facture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through an organization headed by a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there is restric- tion on their manufacture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manufacture, acquisition, dis- posal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits are subject to the require- ment of declaration. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining has been brought under state management. The Government Mint has been licensed under the Gold Control Law to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimen- sions, and markings are prescribed. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; established jewelers, however, are from time to time granted licenses to import gold for the manufac ture of jewelry for export in their workshops. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for export and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the U. S. S. R. and other Eastern European countries is prohibited. Changes during 1970 February 18. A new industrial licensing policy was announced, which was further elaborated in July. The policy of licensing imports of raw materials on the basis of past consumption was liberalized so as to permit imports in excess of replenishment requirements. February 20. Foreign companies proposing to sell their assets in India were advised to obtain the prior approval of the Reserve Bank before effecting the sale if they were likely to seek repatriation of more than Rs 1 million in respect of sale proceeds. March 1. Under a new foreign travel scheme, resi- dents were permitted to travel abroad without "P form" formalities, provided that they had not been out- side India (except Nepal) during the three years prior to the date of the trip to be undertaken. Residents INDIA (except those on a haj pilgrimage) traveling by Air India, the Shipping Corporation of India, or the Moghul Line (initially Air India only) were entitled to purchase US$100 or its equivalent for incidental expen- ses. Also, persons who were offered hospitality by insti- tutions abroad would henceforth be allowed to attend conferences, seminars, and similar events abroad with- out restriction as to the number of persons attending the same event. Previously, all personal travel abroad was subject to prior approval of a "P form," and no exchange was granted for tourist travel. Persons avail- ing themselves of the new facility would not be excluded from P form approvals or travel exchange allocations available under normal regulations. They would not be eligible to avail themselves of the new scheme again, however, until three years after the date of return to India from any type of trip abroad under- taken after March 1, 1970. Only round-trip passages were eligible. March 1. The rules governing the release of exchange for study abroad were liberalized somewhat. April 1. The import policy for 1970/71 was announced. The requirements of export-oriented indus- tries would be licensed more liberally. Increased prefer- ential treatment, in respect of permitted sources of imports, was accorded to industrial units exporting 25 per cent or more of their production. Three industries were added to the group of priority industries whose imports were linked to their export potential. The export duty on tea was suspended and that on a number of other products reduced; the duty on speci- fied ju te manufactures was lowered from Rs 500 to Rs 200 a ton. An additional 159 import items were pro- hibited, the entry of over 56 items freely importable by actual users was restricted, and the quotas for 29 items were reduced. The importation of an additional 38 items was restricted in principle to public sector agencies. The system of cash subsidies on exports was reorganized. Two types of advance import licenses for exporting firms were introduced ("on account" licenses and "imprest" licenses). The STC established an Industrial Raw Mate- rials Assistance Centre. The STC and the MMTC would henceforth import also certain commodities over which they did not have an import monopoly. April 16. A new type of account, the Nonresident (External) Account, was established for private indi- viduals of Indian nationality or origin resident outside India. These accounts could be opened without prior approval and could, subject to Reserve Bank approval, be credited with funds transferred from any existing nonresident account of the holder, provided such funds were eligible for repatriation under existing regulations; the accounts could be credited freely with amounts remitted in fu ture, through banking channels, from the country of residence of the account holder. Funds held 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA in these accounts could be transferred abroad freely, with the proviso that holders resident in the Sterling Area could not make transfers to countries outside the Area. Interest on these accounts was exempt from Indian income tax and was freely transferable. May 15. The facilities for the crediting of the redemption proceeds of Gulf rupee notes to the nonres- ident accounts of banks operating in Muscat and Oman were withdrawn, since the Gulf rupee had ceased to be legal tender in the Sultanate. (On July 2, the general permission for the import into India of these notes from Muscat and Oman was withdrawn.) June 6. The arrangements for the registration of export contracts involving deliveries over a period of 12 months or more, which ensured exporters the same level of assistance in the form of import replenishment as prevailed on the date of the contract, were extended to the cash assistance scheme. July 11. Travel to Ceylon or Mauritius ceased to be considered travel abroad for purposes of the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970. July 21. Residents could (in addition to any trips for which the Reserve Bank granted foreign exchange or "P form" approval) visit Mauritius once every three years, subject to "P form" approval; persons traveling to Mauritius by Air India could once every three years take up foreign exchange equivalent to US$100. August 7. A "Mauritius Travel Scheme" was intro- duced. The facilities of the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970 were made available, mutatis mutandis, for travel to Mauritius, free of "P form" formalities. August 24. The US$100 facility available to travelers using specified Indian carriers was extended to persons eligible under the foreign travel scheme who traveled to either Afghanistan or Burma only, by any Indian air- line, on a roundtrip ticket. September 1. All imports of cashew nuts were effected by the Cashew Corporation of India. September 11. Restrictions on imports of steel by actual users were further relaxed. September 16. All imports of raw cotton were effected by the Cotton Corporation of India. November 1. The 1960 Trade and Transit Treaty with Nepal expired. November 16. The procedure was announced under which the Reserve Bank would for capital goods and engineering goods consider applications for an exten- sion of the standard six-month period for the surrender of proceeds from exports. November 19. The early establishment of a State Jute Corporation was announced. December 26. A five-year trade agreement with the U. S. S. R. was signed which envisaged a significant increase in mutual trade. Provision was made for pro- gressive export diversification in each direction, for new forms of industrial cooperation, and for joint coopera- tion in third countries. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. In the Djakarta exchange market, transactions in U. S. dollars are effected at rates within 1 per cent either side of Rp 378 per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the Djakarta rates for the U. S. dollar and the rates in international markets for the currencies concerned. An additional effective exchange rate results from the application of a 10 per cent exchange tax to the proceeds from the export of most commodities. In the Djakarta Bourse three calls for exchange are conducted each week under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange in the call is restricted to the foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Rep- resentatives of the foreign exchange banks notify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each pre- sents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the intervention rate. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system, but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. It is not legal tender in West Irian,1 which is not entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system but has a currency of its own and a measure of autonomy in respect of exchange and trade control. The exchange rate between the Irian Barat rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = Rp 18.9. The exchange rate of the Irian Barat rupiah in terms of currencies other than the Indo- nesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = US$0.05 or the equivalent for other currencies. The 10 per cent exchange tax on most export proceeds is applicable also in West Irian, giving rise to an additional effective exchange rate of IBRp 18 = US$1. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in converti- ble currencies. Indonesia has no operative payments agreements.2 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act rec- ognizes only foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968, only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their licenses and new for- eign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, mainland China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of completely assembled commercial vehi- cles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in built- up or semiknocked-down condition; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets, mosquito sticks; and specified types of tex- tiles, car tires, batteries, printed matter, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. The importing of cloves, wheat flour, fertilizer; and refined sugar is restricted to specified approved importers. No licenses are required for imports, but import items are divided into four catego- ries—A, B, C, and D—according to their essentiality; this classification is used in controls over credit arrangements for imports and in the implementation of foreign aid arrangements. Importers may contract short-term usance credit from suppliers without bank guarantee (referred to as "merchant letters of credit"), but otherwise sight letters of credit are required for all private sector imports with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, and imports specifically authorized by the Department of Trade (such as goods constitut- ing part of a foreign investment). A deposit of 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be lodged with Bank Indo- nesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of government imports; letters of credit for nongovern- ment imports cannot be opened until the importer has purchased the foreign exchange, but under preimport financing arrangements his bank may borrow abroad the foreign currency that is needed. Import duties, which are almost without exception ad l rThe rupiah became legal tender in West Irian on February 18, 1971. 2 Indonesia maintains inoperative bilateral payments with mainland China and the United Arab Republic. agreements 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA valorem, are imposed on the c.i.f. value of the com- modities converted at the customs valuation rate (R p 3 78 per US$1 on December 31, 1970). The import duty structure is complex; it includes sur- charges, an excess profits tax, and various other charges and levies. There are nine basic rates of duties, with the highest rate at 100 per cent. Surcharges or reductions are applied to most of the basic duties. Sur- charges range from 50 per cent to 600 per cent of the basic duty and for 12 tariff items which are free of basic du ty there is a levy of between Rp 15 and Rp 250 per U. S. dollar on the c.i.f. value of the goods. Reductions vary from 20 per cent to 100 per cent of the basic rate and cover a much narrower range of goods than the surcharges. The effective tariff rates, i.e., the basic rates adjusted for other import levies, range from zero per cent to 300 per cent. Sales taxes of 5, 10, 20, and 50 per cent are levied on most imports on their c.i.f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempted from import duties are also exempted f rom sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travel- ers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, mainland China, Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of gold; certain categories of unpro- cessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; cinchona bark; scrap bronze, copper, and iron (other than scrap bronze and copper f rom West I r ian ); and antiques of cultural value. Otherwise, all commodi- ties may be free ly exported by registered private firms and state trading firms. Full surrender requirements are in effect for the proceeds from all nonpetroleum exports (except in "border-crossing" trade; see below). All exporters except the petroleum companies, cer- tain mining companies, and licensed barter traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. For the principal export commodities other than petro- leum, the sales price must not be lower than "indica- tion" prices determined periodically by the Minister of Trade. The fu ll proceeds from the export are subject to surrender and, except for petroleum products, finished goods, batik textiles, and other hand icraf ts, are subject to the 10 per cent exchange tax; the exporter settles the tax in foreign exchange on receipt of the proceeds. A specific cess is levied on exports of certain agricultural products and on interisland trad ing in the same prod- ucts. Agr icu l tural commodities produced in border 202 regions may be exported to Malaysia and Singapore in exchange for specified consumer goods, capital equip- ment, and raw materials. In this "border-crossing trade," the value of an import or export shipment must not exceed M$600. Capital The Foreign Investment Law of January 10, 1967 provides various incentives for the participation of for- eign capital in Indonesian enterprises except those in a few specified fields of activity (including harbors, elec- tric power, shipping, railroads, and commerce). The Investment Law specifies a system of investment priori- ties; it assigns the highest priority to enterprises gener- ating foreign exchange, followed by those that save for- eign exchange. Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operation permit for foreign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemp- tion from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years Joint ventures by Indo- nesians and foreigners may benefit from similar tax incentives. Other inducements include exemption from customs duties, accelerated depreciation allowances, and permission to offset initial losses against subsequent profits; foreign investments with a minimum capital of US$15 million may receive additional benefits. Transfer of profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obli- gations in Indonesia) is guaranteed. Guarantees of t rans fer are also given in respect of depreciation allow- ances and transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign persons in Indonesia. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax re l ief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The law implicitly provides guarantees against nationalization of foreign investments. Equitable and mutually satisfactory arrangemen ts are stipulated for resolving the issue of just compensation in the event of nationalization of any specific foreign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises previously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in w i th in the context of rehabilitation and expansion programs that have been approved by the Government. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations may take place with effect from January 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the proceeds each year, with a fu ll guarantee as to their value in foreign cur- rency. The t rans fer of proceeds from the sale of assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Govern- ment is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is guaranteed as to its value in foreign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding non- guaranteed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS- Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments in Indonesia are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DIGS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equip- ment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in commodities. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign national- ity may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign cur- rency (with the exception of securities covered by a special arrangement with the Netherlands). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold and gold coins (other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler), unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Imports of gold are free of license and quantitative restriction but are subject to an excess profit levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1970 January 1. The exchange rate applicable to transac- tions of oil companies was changed from Rp 300 to Rp 326 per U. S. dollar, buying and selling. February 11. The importing of cloves, wheat flour, fertilizer, and refined sugar was restricted to specified approved importers. March 27. New legislation was enacted for the estab- lishment of free trade zones and free ports; Sabang's "free-port" status was extended for 30 years. April 17. An exchange reform took place involving the merging of the two existing exchange markets, the BE and DP markets, at Rp 378 per US$1, i.e., approxi- mately the exchange rate level ruling in the DP market. The exchange rate for sales of foreign aid funds remained at Rp 326 per US$1, the level of the INDONESIA previous BE rate. The Rp 378 rate would in principle be subject to adjustment to reflect fundamen tal market trends. The exchange proceeds of the 10 per cent exchange tax (ADO tax) on exports other than petro- leum, which previously accrued to the regions of Indo- nesia, would henceforth accrue to the Central Govern- ment; finished manufactured goods, batik textiles, and handicrafts were exempted from the tax. The 5 per cent exchange tax on the proceeds of eight major export commodities was eliminated. The export over- price system was eliminated and full surrender require- ments were imposed for all nonpetroleum exports. The existing degree of freedom of foreign payments was maintained and virtually all imports remained free from quantitative restriction. There was also an exchange reform in West Irian. The exchange rate structure was simplified and new rates of IBRp 1 = Rp 18.9 and IBRp 20 = US$1 replaced those of IBRp 1 = Rp 10 and IBRp 10 = US$1. The rate of IBRp 20 = US$1 was in principle a fluctuating one intended to ensure a correct cross rate for the U. S. dollar in terms of the Indonesian rupiah. All exchange restrictions and restrictions on imports of banknotes applied on either side between West Irian and the rest of Indonesia were removed; West Irian's taxes on payments to other parts of Indonesia and Java's taxes on the import by travelers of Irian Barat banknotes also were eliminated. The export of gold and gold coins other than by the monetary authorities or as jewelry in the personal effects of travelers was prohibited. Also prohibited were exports of silver; cinchona bark; scrap bronze, copper, and iron; and antiques of cultural value. April 17. All imports valued at over US$100 had to be covered by fu l ly prepaid letters of credit. April 17. The classification of export commodities into Categories A and B was abolished. April 17. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality were freely permitted to transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Excepted, however, were securities covered by a special arrangement with the Netherlands. April 17. The Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transac- tions ceased to have any operational functions, admin- istration taxes (BLLD fees, DE charges, KPP charges, and certain customs charges) were eliminated, and bank charges were reduced on imports and exports; total bank charges, previously 3 per cent for imports and 2l/2 per cent for exports, were reduced to % of 1 per cent of draft amounts. April 17. The exchange rate applicable to the trans- actions of oil companies was changed from US$1 = Rp 326 to US$1 = Rp 378. April 18. The exchange rate for customs valuation 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA purposes was changed from US$1 = Rp 325 to US$1 = Rp 378. May 11. Imports of commercial vehicles in com- pletely assembled condition, textiles with batik designs, sarongs, and specified types of car tires, printed matter, and bottles were prohibited. May 27. Foreign exchange banks were permitted to contract foreign bank credits of 180 days or less for financing of imports of Category A and B goods and to extend corresponding rupiah credits up to 70 per cent of each letter of credit to importers. (On June 10, Bank Indonesia introduced forward exchange cover facilities for three months for the banks for liabilities under such credits.) May 27. Importers were permitted to contract the import of goods on their own merchant's letter of credit. July 3. Imports of gold no longer required special authorization by the Department of Trade. July 25. The export of silver was restricted authorized exporters. August 1. The import of built-up motorcycles was prohibited. August 5. The existing requirement for a surveyor's report to be submitted prior to the opening of letters of credit for imports from Hong Kong and Singapore was revoked. August 7. A decree issued by the Ministry of Finance early in 1971 took effect retroactively. It speci- fied the types of production in which new foreign or domestic investment qualified for tax exemptions. to August 7. The requirement was waived that a wholly foreign-owned enterprise must have a certain minimum capitalization to qualify for tax exemptions provided by the foreign investment law. August 20. Imports of specified types of batteries, motor tires, and textiles were prohibited. August 24. Imports of built-up radio and television sets and galvanized iron sheets were prohibited. August 28. The prohibition on the export of scrap bronze and copper was lifted for exports from West Irian. September 1. Imports of specified types of lamps and bulbs were prohibited. September 19. Controls over the import of gold were removed. November 13. The duty rate on cars valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b. was reduced to the same level as that applied to cars valued at US$2,000 or less (i.e., from 300 per cent to 200 per cen t ). December 2. Imports of radio and television sets in semiknocked-down condition were prohibited. December 4. Imports of mosquito sticks were pro- hibited. December 9. The exchange rate structure was unified on the selling side by the abolition of the special rate of Rp 326 per US$1 applicable to sales of foreign aid funds. December 9. Representative offices of foreign com- panies were no longer permitted to engage in import, export, or distribution activities. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The official rates are Rls 76.25 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies quoted by the Bank Markazi Iran (central bank) 1 are based on these buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the exchange rates of the currencies concerned in inter- national exchange markets; the commercial banks, how- ever, are not permitted to quote buying rates of less than Rls 75.00 per US$1 or selling rates higher than Rls 76.50 per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of their rates against the U. S. dollar in international exchange markets. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the central bank. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Economy and approved by the Council of Ministers. Import policy is formulated within an overall foreign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations with Albania, mainland China, Eastern Germany, and North Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation within the Ministry of Econ- omy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in ster- ling, U. S. dollars, or the currency of the country con- cerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the six countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U. S. dol- lars. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relat- ing to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are set- tled over clearing accounts maintained by the respec- tive central banks in U. S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. (On January 12, 1971, the Japanese yen was added.) 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R. and authorized banks; rial accounts may be freely used only for payments in Iran, their conversion into foreign cur- rencies being subject to central bank approval. Foreign nationals may also maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of for- eign nationals may be used freely for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Iranian nationals may freely maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current accounts with domestic banks, all foreign exchange they receive other than export pro- ceeds. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the Ministry of Economy) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is con- sidered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authori- zations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports without payment of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and the central bank; permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institu- tions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. The import of gifts, whether "authorized" or "unautho- rized" commodities, is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Specified commodities, such as sugar, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, payment for all commercial imports must be made through the 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilat- eral export/import list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN official exchange market, with foreign exchange obtained from the banking system. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authorization for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iran- ian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when originat- ing in Hong Kong. No import registrations are accepted for commodities originating in Eastern Ger- many. At the time of registration of imports, an import reg- istration fee of 4 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate of Rls 76.50 per US$1, is collected by authorized banks. The fee is charged on all imports except those brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Pro- tection of Foreign Investment in Iran. Importers must at the same time deposit with the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rls 30 or Rls 75 (depend- ing on the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment must be made against a doc- umentary letter of credit.4 This deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The advance import deposit is not required for commodities which may be imported on a collection basis, whether they are in fact imported against a bill for collection or not. The central bank may permit the shifting of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required and financing must be on a letter of credit basis to the category in which bills for collection (with or without advance deposit) are permitted. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial profit tax ranges from 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the 4 For a few commodities subject to the Rls 30 deposit, the central bank from time to time allows an ad hoc reduction to Rls 10 per US$1. 206 commercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to mer- chants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. For- eign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries except Rhodesia— may be sold by authorized banks upon presentation of the traveler's passport. For children under 12 the allow- ances in principle are 30 per cent of the above amounts, but in practice the fu ll allowances are granted. In addition, authorized banks may at any time sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of £50 (US$120), against a written request, to Iranian nation- als for assistance to persons abroad or for other per- sonal use without the submission of supporting docu- ments, provided that the remittance is made in the form of a mail or telegraphic transfer; authorized banks charge a commission of Rls 130 on each such transfer. Iranian nationals may also freely make remit- tances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources other than exports; balances in such accounts are freely transferab le. Purchases of foreign currency from the banks for payments in respect of noncommercial invisi- bles not mentioned above require licenses from the central bank. Iran ian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel, for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (w i fe and children from 7-18 years of age ), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrim- ages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passport. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax and cus- toms duty charged at the time of import of raw mate- rials contained in manufactured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive pay- ments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The central bank offers preferential discount facilities for export bills. The exporter must offer for surrender the foreign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the cus- toms, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder (except for payments in respect of commercial imports). The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repatriation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Travelers, du r ing their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely (except for payments in respect of com- mercial imports), as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the banking system require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and IRAN Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activi- ties in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the Law for the Attraction and Pro- tection of Foreign Investment and the provisions con- tained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is con- verted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Super- visory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Iran; imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler,5 require the prior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities; in practice, all imports of nonmonetary gold are made by the Bank Melli Iran (an authorized commercial b ank) and exports are prohibited. Com- mercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Changes during 1970 March 21. The Export-Import Regulations for the Iranian year 1349 (March 21, 1970 to March 20, 1971) came into effect. There were virtually no changes in commercial profit taxes and in import duties. The quota restrictions imposed on automobile imports in March 1969 were eliminated and the prior approval requirement was abolished for imports of pas- senger and sports cars. Imports of aircraft and ships became subject to prior authorization. Under Article 21 of the Regulations, the Ministry of Economy reserved the right to give or withhold permission for imports of machinery according to the export plans of the indus- try concerned. 5 Such jewelry must have a cost of production equivalent to at least one fou r th of the total value; the assessment is made by the customs. It must also meet the requirements set by the Iranian Insti- tute of Standards. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN March 21. The export subsidies on manganese ore and lead ore were abolished. March 28. Imports without transfer of foreign exchange no longer required the approval of the Minis- try of Economy, provided that their value was US$500 or less. The prior approval of the central bank contin- ued to be required for all imports without transfer of foreign exchange. April 11. Imports of certain plastic products and sheet metal no longer required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. April 11. The Ministry of Economy issued instruc- tions to authorized exchange dealers specifying the types of industrial plant and machinery whose import required the prior approval of the Ministry in accord- ance with Article 21 of the Export-Import Regulations. April 19. A 5 per cent import duty was levied on 12 categories of industrial machinery and equipment, to serve as revenue for the Export Promotion Center. April 29. Imports of spare parts for radio and televi- sion receivers no longer required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. May 14. The central bank fixed the preferential lending rate for export bills at 2 per cent. This rate previously varied from 2 to 3 per cent. May 23. Imports of certain tires and tubes no longer required the prior approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy. June 9. The Ministry of Finance announced that, where contracts or agreements with foreign suppliers included a certain sum as interest, the 4 per cent import registration fee would not be required on the amount of interest. June 11. Imports of concrete mixers required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. June 17. The export of fine wool no longer required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. July 15. The Ministry of Economy issued a list of spare parts and machinery accessories for which prior approval was required in accordance with Article 21 of the Export-Import Regulations. August 18. The prior approval of the Ministry of Economy ceased to be required for imports without transfer of foreign exchange and valued at over US$500, except for commodities subject to special approval by the Ministry of Economy also when paid for through the banking system. The prior approval of the central bank continued to be required. September 27. The April 1968 facility was amended which had allowed exporters who did not have foreign exchange proceeds from exports at their disposal, to meet their surrender obligation by delivering either for- eign exchange from their own holdings or foreign exchange sold to an authorized bank by a third party. Henceforth, the central bank's permission was required for meeting the surrender requirement through these alternative means. September 30. The authorized banks were instructed not to sell travelers checks under the ,£50 facility. October 7. The customs authorities accepted bank guarantees from importers, in lieu of cash, for payment of customs duty and the commercial profit tax. Such guarantees could not extend beyond February 22, 1971. December 15. Authorized banks were permitted to engage in certain swap transactions in foreign curren- cies quoted by the central bank. Banks could hence- forth purchase foreign exchange from Iranian or foreign physical or juridical persons for rials, with a resale commitment for a specified date and at a fixed exchange rate. The term of the swap contract must be at least one month but not more than twelve months.. Authorized banks were also permitted to cover their swaps with the central bank. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar or ID 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currenciesx or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad; exemp- tions include amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 granted during any cal- endar year. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee (headed by the Governor of the Central Bank or his Deputy), to the Department of Foreign Transfers of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Adminis- tration. Import and export policy are determined by the Council for the Regulation of Domestic and Foreign Trade. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the principal licensing authority for imports and exports, but import licenses are also issued by certain other public organizations and government departments. A foreign exchange budget, including an import program, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies1 or, under the bilateral payments agree- ments with mainland China, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transac- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. tions permitted in convertible currencies may alterna- tively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordi- nary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special non- resident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Furthermore, Iraqi nation- als who have been working abroad for at least a year or who become residents after having been nonresi- dents may open accounts in foreign currencies with banks in Iraq and credit these with 50 per cent of their foreign savings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, including imports for the holder's personal use, imports of certain capital goods, or meeting expenditure abroad for travel, medical treat- ment, and study purposes; payments from these accounts up to the equivalent of ID 500 a year do not require Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Imports of 43 commodi- ties are prohibited from all sources. There is also a list of about 80 commodities whose import is suspended. Imports of some 120 items including jute, sugar, tea, edible olive oil, certain medical supplies, and automo- biles, are a government monopoly. All private imports except those of the oil companies require licenses, vir- tually all of which are issued in accordance with an annual import program. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and equipment for industrial use. Some com- modities may only be imported by government agencies or state trading companies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by con- tractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraq Government. A tax is levied on the amount of the import license at the following rates: % per mill for producer goods, 1 per mill for consumer goods, and, in addition, up to 15 per cent on any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of % per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 1 per cent on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pres- entation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments from foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, above), all payments for invisibles require per- mission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educa- tional and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the in- surance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not ex- ceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is neces- sary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calen- dar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject to a limit of ID 200 for each passport covering more than one person. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, as part of the basic travel allowance, and the equivalent of half of that allowance in foreign currency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equiva- lent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts trans- ferred for the account of persons studying abroad, per- sons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). Also exempt are any amounts financed from nonresident foreign currency accounts held by nonresident Iraq nationals with banks in Iraq. The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted dur- ing any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500. Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an author- ized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfill- ment of certain formalities. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovernment, and public utility departments, certain persons traveling for study purposes, foreigners, except non-Iraqi wives of Iraq nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. On leaving the country, Iraq nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and 210 South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agricultural products when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Council for the Regulation of Domestic and Foreign Trade may also prohibit the export of certain commod- ities. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding Iran) and India are exempt from these requirements, and some commodities may be exported on a compensation (barter) basis. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel currency), in unlimited amounts; provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form, they may re-export any unused amount. Travel- ers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted info local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor excep- tions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits after income tax of foreign service companies is transferable. The transfer of profits net of income tax from foreign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applica- ble for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these per- centage limitations and entitled to preferential treat- ment in several other respects. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Spe- cial facilities allow Arab investors to bring in converti- ble currency freely through a licensed dealer for speci- fied investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible cur- rency. Similar facilities permit Iraq nationals to bring in convertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the funds in foreign currency accounts, bal- ances in which are freely transferable abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption during the first five years of profita- ble operation from income tax on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the prin- cipal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all workers and employees other than essential techni- cians or experts are Iraq citizens or Arabs; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding pow- er-generating plants, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises, are those whose main purpose is to process raw mate- rials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanufactured products into finished prod- ucts, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all for- eign-owned firms except banks 2 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraq nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring spe- cial skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, pro- vided that it is declared at the point of entry on a for- eign exchange form. Changes during 1970 At the beginning of 1970, a consolidated and ex- panded list was published comprising all imports placed under government monopoly. During the year, the issuance of import licenses was from time to time se- verely restricted for certain goods originating in Den- mark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Poland, Rumania, and the United States. January 1. The import program for 1970 went into effect. It was set at ID 168 million, compared with ID 150 million for 1969. For the first time, the import program was part of an overall foreign exchange budget. January 16. The Export Subsidy Fund began opera- tions. 2 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. IRAQ February 23. The Domestic and Foreign Trade Reg- ulation Law No. 20 came into force. It provided for the creation of a Council which would, among other things, determine import and export policy. March 24. Law No. 208 of December 16, 1969 went into effect. Only Iraq nationals or other Arabs could op- erate as commercial agents or brokers. June. Import licensing authority was no longer con- fined to the Directorate-General of Imports and Ex- ports; other public organizations and departments could henceforth issue licenses, in accordance with the import program, for the import requirements of specified sectors. June 28. Revolutionary Council Decision No. 726 permitted Iraq nationals who had been resident abroad for at least one year to open foreign currency accounts with banks in Iraq. The accounts could be credited with up to 50 per cent of the holder's savings from his earnings abroad. They could be debited for a variety of purposes, including the import of capital equipment and the covering of expenses connected with foreign travel for educational and medical purposes; debits up to ID 500 a year were exempt from prior authoriza- tion, while debits in excess of ID 500 required prior approval by the Central Bank. Implementing regula- tions took effect on July 8; the arrangements were ap- plicable also to Iraq nationals who became residents after having been nonresidents. June 28. Revolutionary Council Decision No. 727 permitted resident Iraq nationals holding funds abroad contrary to existing regulations to repatriate these funds within six months without incurring any penalty. Such funds could be kept in special accounts, where they would be available for the import of capital equipment or for other approved purposes. July 8. Decree No. 833 exempted from the transfer tax any transfer financed from foreign currency ac- counts held by Iraq nationals. August 12. Decree No. 899 extended preferential treatment to Arab capital to encourage its inflow to Iraq. Arab investments in Iraq would receive prefer- ential interest rate treatment; they were also entitled to all credit facilities available to Iraq investments, to re- patriation of capital in convertible currency at least to the extent of the original investment, and to the trans- fer of net profits from such investments with no per- centage limitations being applied. Furthermore, Arab investments would be considered as Iraq investments. October 4. Arab investors could freely bring in funds in convertible currencies, through a licensed dealer, for specified investments; capital and net profits would be transferable in convertible currency. Iraq nationals could freely bring in funds in convertible currency, through a licensed dealer, and hold these in foreign 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ currency accounts with a bank in Iraq; balances and interest thereon were transferable and exempt from the exchange tax. October 10. The amount in Iraqi banknotes that travelers were allowed to bring in was raised from ID 5 to ID 25. November 8. The exit tax payable by Iraq travelers upon departure was reduced from ID 50 to ID 20. December 3. Residents could take out 50 per cent of their exchange allocations for foreign travel in the form of foreign currency; previously, this facility was limited to the equivalent of ID 15. December 18. Provided that these items were de- clared on an exchange form, persons entering Iraq could freely bring in gold bars, unworked gold, gold coins, items for personal use made of gold, checks, drafts, promissory notes, and foreign currencies (in- cluding bank balances) other than Israeli currency. With the exception of the forms of gold mentioned, declaration was not mandatory if the holder did not in- tend to take the imported items out again. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound or <£Ir 1 = US$2.40. There is no exchange market in Ireland. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other curren- cies are based on rates in the London market. Certain capital transactions involving investment currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at different effec- tive rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Depart- ment of Agriculture and Fisheries if the goods are agri- cultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and pay- ments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; cer- tain insurance payments within the Sterling Area, how- ever, may be made in non-Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are desig- nated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resident of a country outside the Ster- ling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, or con- verted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of cer- tain commodities are subject to quantitative restrictions, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.1 Indi- vidual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain tex- tiles and yarns originating in any of 16 specified coun- tries or territories.2 All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an Exter- nal Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions out- side the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require approval. 1 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradually increased in accordance with an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements to date have been made on a global basis, although the obligation relates only to goods originating in the United Kingdom. 2 Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for resi- dents of the State of <£250 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to £1,500 is allowed for each jour- ney. Limits are also established for allowances for edu- cation and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than £250 of an allowance of non-Sterling Area currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons traveling to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resi- dent outside the Sterling Area (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any non-Sterling Area notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on the export of a number of items to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in non-Sterling Area curren- cies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if non-Sterling Area currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any non-Sterling Area cur- rency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all trans- fers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emi- grating to countries outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a family. Where the total value of an emi- 214 grant's assets exceeds £5,000, the transfer of the excess amount outside the Sterling Area is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesig- nation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure from Ireland. Thereafter, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling Area residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, per- mission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred outside the Sterling Area through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Sterling Area securities. Applica- tions for the transfer of resident-owned capital for pur- poses other than emigration are considered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area require approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling Area securities 3 sold out- side the Sterling Area may be fully reinvested in non- sterling securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is car- ried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment cur- rency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in certificates of deposit with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of invest- ment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct invest- ments outside the Sterling Area are regarded as invest- ment currency and are eligible for investment in non- Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property for personal use owned by residents are normally regarded as investment cur- rency where the whole of the property is sold; in other cases the 25 per cent requirement is applied. Residents may obtain, subject to individual permission, reasonable amounts of investment currency to purchase from non-Sterling Area residents property outside the Ster- ling Area for personal use; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with 3 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities expressed in the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rho desian currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investment currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family. Purchases from residents of the Sterling Area must be settled in sterling. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between resi- dents of the Sterling Area. Specific approval is required for all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. Banks may freely accept deposits in non-Sterling Area currency from nonresidents of the Sterling Area and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the Area. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrowing from nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area; such applications are con- sidered on their merits and on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing outside the Sterling Area is undertaken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Sterling Area is not normally per- mitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of non- Sterling Area diplomatic and consular missions in Ire- land. Gold Dealings in gold coin and gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings in the latter take place in Ireland. Per- mission is normally granted to residents to acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. There are no restric- tions on the import of gold coin or bullion but the permission of the Central Bank is required for export. Such permission is not normally granted except to industrial users. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1970 January 1. Motor vehicle tires of U. K. manufacture were freed from import licensing. IRELAND January 7. The limitations introduced in 1966 on foreign exchange facilities that could be granted by authorized banks to residents of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries for certain travel payments made outside the Sterling Area were with- drawn. A limitation introduced in 1965 remained in force. July 1. The fifth annual reduction in protective duties on imports from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement took place. July 1. Imports of leather footwear from all sources were fully liberalized. September 7. Following the abolition of the property currency market in the United Kingdom on August 19, transactions previously authorized in property currency were authorized in investment currency. When the whole of a property for personal use owned by a resi- dent of Ireland and held outside the Sterling Area was sold to a nonresident of the Sterling Area, normally 100 per cent of the foreign currency proceeds would be regarded as investment currency. In other cases 25 per cent of those proceeds would have to be surren- dered at the official rate. Purchases from other resi- dents could only be settled in sterling, the use of investment currency in such cases being limited to expenses connected with the purchase. In transactions between residents for Irish currency or sterling the 25 per cent requirement would operate on a similar basis to that used for sales for non-Sterling Area currency. September 23. The Central Bank of Ireland intro- duced a scheme for the financing of essential imports designed to minimize the dislocation caused by the clo- sure of the associated (clearing) banks. The scheme was discontinued from November 16. December 26. A bill was enacted which continued the Exchange Control Act 1954 in force until Decem- ber 31, 1974. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.253906 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound or I£3.50 = US$1. All exchange transac- tions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force x are usually made in U. S. dollars as an accounting unit. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign cur- rency accounts or on local currency accounts. The principal type of nonresident foreign currency account is the PATACH account. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held in the account into local cur- rency at the official rate of exchange. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts—for payments to and holdings of foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for holdings of former residents — may be established only with special approval. Avia- tion, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local requirements; film companies may do so under individ- ual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securities, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I<£150 a day for the account holder and for each member of his family, for remittances of up to I £5,000 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former investments that are not eligible for transfer at the official rate and funds left behind in Israel by tour- 1 Brazil, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Portugal. 216 ists. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresi- dent to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Other- wise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. Israeli citizens who are temporarily living and earn- ing abroad may maintain foreign currency in tempo- rary PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may only convert these funds into local currency at the official exchange rate. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK accounts, which may be held by all recipients of for- eign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated from domestic sources, or TAMAM accounts, which may be held by recipients of restitution payments and disability pensions. PAZAK accounts are time deposit accounts denomi- nated in convertible currencies and earning interest at a maximum rate of 6 per cent if the account has been held for a period of one year. All foreign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the Ministry of Finance but including export pro- ceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accounts. Account holders may retain funds in this manner or may exchange them into local currency. As an inducement to export, those exporters who are account holders may use foreign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts to make any authorized foreign payments. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but PAZAK accounts may be registered in the names of members of the immediate family of the account holder. TAMAM accounts are time deposit accounts in con- vertible currencies and bearing maximum interest at 4l/2 per cent if held for one year. One third of con- vertible exchange receipts derived from personal resti- tution payments and from pensions, etc., of disabled sol- diers who served during World War II may be credited to TAMAM accounts. The permitted uses of TAMAM accounts include the following: (1) the purchase through the medium of the authorized bank holding the account of securities denominated in convertible foreign currency that are registered on an official stock exchange in specified foreign countries; (2) payment of premiums on existing life insurance policies denomi- nated in foreign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equiva- lent of US$250, provided that not more than the equiv- alent of US$1,200 per annum is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his family; (4) pay- ment of expenses for study abroad, subject to approval by the Ministry of Education and Culture and provided that the studies being financed in this way were begun prior to February 11, 1962; and (5) payment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. NATAD accounts are transfer accounts in foreign exchange that are used mainly for transactions in for- eign securities. Holders of TAMAM accounts may pur- chase abroad foreign securities denominated in convert- ible foreign currency and registered on an official stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded freely among residents, provided that payments for such securities are effected with NATAD or TAMAM funds or in Israel pounds. If the original buyer resells securities bought with TAMAM account funds for foreign cur- rency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase fu r ther foreign securities but are not nego- tiable between residents. If foreign securities are sold between residents against Israel pounds, the conversion factor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 31, 1970, it stood at about I .£4.20 per U. S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources and all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All commod- ities whose importation is not liberalized are listed in a Negative List. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about one half of total imports in 1970) need not be approved as importers by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are sub- ject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List (about 40 per cent of total imports), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All other permissible imports constitute the Restricted List. All ind iv idual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of pay- ment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Six basic food products (frozen meat, m i lk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. ISRAEL Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted auto- matically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the foreign currency required may be purchased at the time of opening the credit; funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. Licenses are not issued for imports of goods on consign- ment unless the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and under- takes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local currency with the Bank of Israel through an author- ized bank. Each license is valid only for a single com- modity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Importers are required to deposit with the customs, at the time of paying the import duty and for a period of six months, 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports.2 Exempt are commodities subject to customs du ty at a rate of less than 50 per cent, imports by or for the Government, immigrants' personal effects, and gifts. The funds are kept on deposit in the Bank of Israel and interest of 6 per cent per annum is received by the importer. Virtually all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The main exemptions are for fuels, certain basic foodstuffs, and uncut diamonds. A purchase tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individ- ual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equiva- lent to US$10-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, mem- bership dues, and registration in a university. For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$250 a traveler for each journey. Not more than I £100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are per- m i t ted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$30. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax; for travel by sea, the tax is I £550 plus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket, and for travel by air, I £595 plus 10 per cent of the price of the ticket. Exporters doing more than US$100,000 of export business a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Immigrants and their families are exempt f rom travel tax for three years from the date of immigration or of entry as temporary residents. 2 The rate of deposit was reduced to 40 per cent on January 1, 1971. A further reduction would be considered by the end of 1971. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. For some commodities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account. Exports of most commodities are eli- gible for incentive payments based on value added and designed to rebate estimated internal indirect taxes and the import surcharge. The payment for diamonds is 70 agorot per US$1 equivalent. For other commodities the payment ranges from 70 to 105 agorot per US$1 equivalent, with the higher rates applicable to commod- ities with a higher proportion of domestic value added. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebate of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in for- eign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. One third of the foreign exchange received by resi- dents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in Wolrd War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts. For ten years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I £100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I ,£150 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, 218 subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that fulfill one of the following conditions: (1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing pro- ductive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; or ( 3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area, its production is of the import-substitution type. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other investment made by a non- resident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to transfer abroad the principal or the interest or profits on his investment are concerned. The difference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Every investment in real estate, debentures registered at the stock exchange, or shares that was made in Israel after May 15, 1948 in foreign currency that was converted into Israel pounds as the law required, or that was made in Israel pounds derived from the con- version of foreign currency, or in State of Israel bonds that may be used for investment purposes upon matu- rity, entitles the nonresident or immigrant concerned (providing in the latter case that the investment was implemented before his settling permanently in Israel) to transfer abroad the proceeds of the liquidation of his investment by purchasing foreign currency at the official exchange rate. (For immigrants, this right is limited to the first ten years of their residence in Israel.) As regards income f rom such investments (including profits distributed in the form of bonus shares), this principle applies only to securities registered at the stock exchange or to income credited to a Blocked Account in the name of the beneficiary after January 1, 1968. In respect of investments made by nonresi- dents to which the above principle does not apply— either as regards the principal or earnings—the proceeds of liquidation and the earnings must be credited to a Blocked Account. An investment made from monies in a Registered Account, or from amounts which the owner was legally obliged from the outset to deposit in a Registered Account, can only be liquidated by credit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing the proceeds and the income to a Registered Account. Normally, the Registered Account must be credited with every right accuring in Israel to a foreign resident, subject to the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquida- tion of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. Any resident may retain property abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from property; new immigrants may retain liquid assets as well. Transfers abroad of a capi- tal nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are entitled to pur- chase foreign securities registered at stock exchanges in specified foreign countries. Foreign securities purchased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel against foreign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits. The pro- ceeds of the sale can then be credited to the TAMAM account previously debited with the purchase. The owner of foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is allowed to sell them also against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his turn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign cur- rency (abroad or to holders of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD account. This is the only manner in which NATAD accounts can be established. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign cur- rency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the procedure being the same. The acquisition of real estate in Israel by a nonresi- dent requires the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. A general license allows authorized dealers to purchase apartments in cooperative houses for nonresidents. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares that are quoted on the Tel Aviv stock exchange, provided that purchases are financed with convertible foreign currencies. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; pur- chases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches. If the gold is held in Israel, it must be deposited with an authorized bank, except for collectors' coins and personal jewelry. It is forbidden to trade in gold, to transfer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Gold can be sold only to an ISRAEL authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import license is obtained. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are transacted by five importing wholesalers. These wholesalers may sell the gold only to purchasers registered with the Purchase Tax Administra- tion. The latter checks these purchases by each manufac- turer against the gold content of products marked as "purchase tax paid" in order to eliminate the possibility of sales of these quantities of gold on the market as bul- lion. Changes during 1970 On various dates during the year, additional items were added to the Free Import Orders List. January 1. Reductions in import duties on a wide range of domestically produced commodities were announced. This was the first stage of a program adopted in August 1969 to eventually reduce the maxi- mum level of tariff protection to 35 per cent; further reductions would take place on January 1 of each of the years 1971-75. January 8. Exchange for servicing and repayment of foreign loans taken up by the private sector was hence- forth made available for loans with a maturity of at least five years and bearing interest not exceeding 8 per cent. Previously, such loans had to be for at least eight years with a maximum interest of 6 per cent. January 11. An import deposit scheme was intro- duced. Importers were required to deposit, at the time of paying the import duty, 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imported goods, for a period of six months; they would receive 6 per cent interest on the deposits. Exempt were commodities subject to import duty at a rate of less than 30 per cent, imports by or for the Government, immigrants' personal effects, gifts, and shipments valued at less than I £500. (This last exemp- tion was revoked on January 20.) The Bank of Israel requested commercial banks not to increase advances to importers for the purpose of financing the deposits. The scheme was to be in force for 12 months but was subsequently extended until March 31, 1972. February 1. Goods in seven tariff classifications were transferred from the Restricted List to the Automatic Approval List. February 8. Increases in purchase tax rates were announced for certain imported and domestic luxury goods, including automobiles. February 11. Increases were effected in the rates of indirect tax rebates under the general export incentive system. Subsequently, the rebate on diamonds was increased from 35 to 70 agorot per U. S. dollar of value added. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL March 1. Goods in five tariff classifications were transferred from the Restricted List to the Automatic Approval List. March 2. The exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was reduced from US$375 to US$250 a person a trip; the allowance of US$500 a person a trip applicable where a person made only one journey in two years was abolished. Exchange allocations for busi- ness travel (except for authorized exporters) were reduced to US$40 a day for up to 21 days; special authorization was required for additional funds for longer trips. April 1. Banks were authorized to pay higher interest rates on nonresident foreign currency deposits in PATACH accounts. April 13. The transfer abroad was suspended of funds accumulated with foreign mutual funds operating in Israel and awaiting investment in foreign securities. April 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated. May 21. Several import items were transferred from the Restricted List to the Automatic Approval List. June 2. The minimum of low-interest credits that banks must grant to exporters was increased from 8 per cent to 9 per cent of their deposits. June 7. In order to speed up the surrender of export proceeds, the system of financing of industrial exports and repayment of such credit was changed from a local currency to a convertible foreign currency basis. August 17. The travel tax was increased by I £ 100 or I<£110 plus 2.5 per cent of the ticket price, to I<£550 or I<£595 plus 10 per cent of the ticket price, respec- tively, for sea and air travel. August 17. An import surcharge of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value was introduced. The principal exemp- tions were for fue l, wheat, sugar, soya, rice, fish fillets, and uncut diamonds. The measure was to remain in effect until the end of the year but was subsequently extended to March 31, 1972, The exemptions from import deposit, previously granted on commodities sub- ject to customs duty at a rate of less than 30 per cent, were extended to goods subject to duty at less than 50 per cent. August 17. Further increases were effected in the rates of reimbursement to exporters of indirect taxes under the general export incentive system. These were to compensate for the import surcharge and for certain changes in indirect taxes and export subsidies. October 1. A preferential trade agreement with the EEC came into force. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira or Lit 625.000 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are main- tained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other currencies1 vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The monetary authorities do not at present intervene in the forward exchange market; forward permiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies, when deal- ing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissible amount of forward transactions against lire is subject to a limit on net transactions set individually for each bank. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transac- tions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ital- ian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of For- eign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Minis- try of Finance at the request of the Ministry of For- eign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are sub- ject to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs, which currencies are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies, and Canadian dollars. convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Special arrangements are applicable under debt liquidation agreements with Turkey, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with pay- ments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for cur- rent and capital transactions, for payments due to resi- dents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes (in denominations not exceeding Lit 10,000) sent direct to the Bank of Italy's head office by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see below). Banknotes for deposit in Capital Accounts must be received by parcel post in official mail bags dispatched from foreign banks with head offices abroad. Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of Febru- ary 7t 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Nonresidents may also maintain Foreign Accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibitedi Practically all imports frorn other countries except Japan, mainland China, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA countries are fred of quantitative restriction; all goods, however, require a bank certificate for submis- sion to the custorhs authorities and sometimes also a license issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported from these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import)2 which includes goods listed under some 25 tariff headings or their parts. Some items in the list require an import license only when originating in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permis- sion to import goods nbt included in the Tabella A Import applies to the United Arab Republic and Yugo- slavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports of raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum from the United Arab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. (Seventy per cent of the value of other imports from the United Arab Republic must be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in any OECD country, and 30 per cent must be paid in lire to the United Arab Republic's lire account with the Italian Exchange Office.) A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when originating in and imported from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., or North Viet-Nam. The list includes some 110 tariff items or subitems related to agricultural products and foodstuffs, and about 840 tariff items or subitems related to other goods. There is a special list of commodities, also included in Tabella B Import, whose importation is unilaterally and de facto liberalized when they both originate in and are shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, or the U.S.S.R. These goods may be admitted by the customs without a license, although some require a visa issued by the Institute of 2 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except Albania, Bul- garia, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 222 Foreign Trade. A similar list exists for mainland China and Eastern Germafiy. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods (listed under some 78 tariff items or subitems at the end of 1970) that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported from that country; some 130 other items or subitems are included in a special list pf cbmmodities for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goodfc of Japanese origin 3 may be imported freely without an individual license, irre- spective of trie country from which they are shipped. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange contrbl form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form com- pleted by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments opera- tions related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation. Advance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 30 days before importation. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks pro- vide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided; amounts in excess of Lit 1 million must be approved by the repre- sentative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on invest- ments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and 3 All goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of Circular No. 606360 of May 28, 1963 (as amended). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution within the limits established for each country; for pay- ments exceeding Lit 1 million, however, prior authori- zation is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve resi- dents of specified countries4 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transac- tions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee ); purchases of publication rights, informa- tion agencies, etc. (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per contract); copyrights (for amounts exceeding L i t5 million a year per contract); services of professional workers and company managers (for amounts exceed- ing Lit 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and ath- letes (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of operation;5 and other transactions not permit- ted by general authorization (when the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1 million for each trip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (tjie corresponding amount for group travel is Lit 500,000); banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. To the extent that he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 1 million.6 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 100,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. 4 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Khmer Republic, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. 6 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. 6 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 50,000 a day in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins com- bined. ITALY For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form com- pleted by the exporter is required; for exports exceed- ing Lit 2 million in value, an export document com- pleted by an authorized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domi- cile, through which he must carry out the payments operations related to his export transactions if settle- ment takes place more than 360 days after exportation. Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment (see section on Capital, below), exchange receipts must be collected within 120 days 7 of shipment, and they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 30 days of receipt. Proceeds in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally converti- ble European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such bal- ances may be used for permitted transactions or be so!4 to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts within the limits established for individual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same collection and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and forward ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally con- vertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 200,000 in foreign banknotes left over from trips abroad and may use tliis exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any' time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Jnward and outward movements of nonresident capi- tal are free. However, loans of any kind from nonresi- dents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respec- tively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long- term loans (other than loans from financial institutions 7 Increased to 360 days on January 7, 1971. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations and loans to rel- atives up to the third degree of relationship, and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commer- cial operations or the performance of services); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent imple- menting regulations. Direct investment in OECD countries, by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a finan- cial institution that has its main office in Italy in a for- eign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any form and without any limit. Direct investment in other countries may be made only (under the supervision of the Italian Exchange Office) by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Minis- try of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earn- ings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (a f ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on for- eign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire.8 Such for- eign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. In princi- ple, the purchase by residents of shares in foreign mutual funds is subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and to the requirement that the shares or certificates must be quoted on at least three leading foreign stock exchanges. In practice, how- ever, a resident is able freely to purchase shares of for- eign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry to sell their shares in Italy, since that authori- zation is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, including that of invest- ing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and that of setting up a branch office in Italy. 8 Shares of foreign financial institutions, however, must be quoted on at least three leading stock exchanges abroad. (This special requirement was revoked on January 12, 1971, when prior examina- tion of applications by the Exchange Office was required.) 224 Residents do not require authorization to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Minis- try of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules gov- erning the issue in Italy of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 million, that of the Min- istry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Inter ministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to international institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of prop- erty of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of Lit 6 million a person upon presentation of specified documents to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder, subject to examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office, when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importa- tion is to take place within 30 days; in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 5 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such pay- ments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred pay- ments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent within 120 d a y s9 after exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of serv- ices. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal grant- ing of credits for commercial transactions or the per- formance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and 9 Increased to 360 days on January 7, 1971. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution up to five years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of For- eign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. Authorized banks must as a general rule maintain approximately balanced foreign exchange positions, i.e., they have been requested not to maintain a net foreign credit position, but they are permitted to maintain a foreign debit position in an amount corresponding to their new export financing. The export of Italian and foreign securities is permit- ted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U. S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the Ministry of the Treasury may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Imports of wrought and semimanufactured gold, including jewelry, are subject to licensing. Exports of wrought and semimanufactured gold other than jewelry also require licenses. Commer- cial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are liberalized for most countries of origin. Changes during 1970 During the year, additional imports originating in specified Eastern European countries were liberalized bilaterally. January 20. Restrictions on imports from Japan of automobiles and 18 other items were lifted. January 30. Payment for imports from the United Arab Republic of raw cotton, rice, and crude petro- um could be made either to the United Arab Repub- lic or to any OECD country, while payment for other imports from the United Arab Republic had to be made 30 per cent into the U. A. R.'s lire account at the Italian Exchange Office and 70 per cent either to the United Arab Republic or to any OECD country. February 10. Banks were reminded that lending to nonresidents required approval and that spot lira trans- actions with foreign banks must be covered by funds in the Foreign Accounts of the latter in Italy. Previously, ITALY payments for spot transactions in lire in practice took place over two days. February 14. Repatriated Italian banknotes were accepted for credit to Capital Accounts only when mailed direct to branches of the Bank of Italy (rather than commercial banks, as previously), and only for credit to an account in the name of the remitting for- eign bank. From February 20, such banknotes had to be mailed to the head office of the Bank of Italy. February 16. The period within which export pro- ceeds must normally be received was reduced from 360 days after shipment to 120 days after shipment. The regulations concerning proceeds from services were modified correspondingly. February 16. The period before importation in which advance payments could be made freely was reduced from 360 days to 30 days. The regulations concerning payments for services were modified corre- spondingly. February 25. Circular No. A 223 of the Exchange Office amended the general import permission for goods not contained in Tabella A Import. For goods originating in Somalia, the general permission ceased to be restricted to transactions in which the goods also were shipped direct from Somalia to Italy. April 1. The rates of the compensatory import tax (tassa di conguaglio) and those of the export refunds granted on the general turnover tax (IGE) were reduced. The measures were applicable to all countries. The reductions were subsequently listed in Legislative Decree No. 195 of May 1, 1970. April 16. The authorized banks, which had in 1969 been requested to maintain an approximately balanced foreign exchange position, were permitted to maintain a foreign debit position in an amount not exceeding that by which they increased their export financing. June 23. Quantitative restrictions were removed on imports of wine from all sources. July 15. The crediting of Swedish banknotes of SKr 10,000 to Foreign Accounts was prohibited. August 6. The circular of November 29, 1968 pro- hibiting the crediting of French banknotes to Foreign Accounts was revoked. September 11. Industrial firms in the nonferrous metals sector were permitted to enter into forward transactions in nickel on the New York market. October 1. Residents could only purchase shares of foreign financial institutions whose shares were listed on at least three foreign stock exchanges "of prime importance." (This special requirement was revoked on Janua ry 12, 1971, when only prior examination of applications by the Exchange Office was required.) 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY October 26. A Legislative Decree abolished the pref- erential fiscal treatment accorded to bananas of Somalian origin, which had been subject to consump- tion tax at a reduced rate. November 12. Industrial firms in the confectionery sector were permitted to enter into forward transactions in cocoa on the London and Paris markets. November 30. Legislative Decree No. 870 was pub- lished which abolished the tobacco monopoly. December 2. Imports from Eastern European coun- tries were fur ther unilaterally liberalized. The measure affected some 70 commodities when originating in Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the U. S. S. R. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and com- mercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency con- cerned, and include a commission. Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union— UMOA —(Dahomey, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are consid- ered foreign countries, and in principle financial rela- tions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Ministry of Economy and Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the im- porter h imse lf. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes of any other in- stitute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury may be credited to nonresident accounts when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of such banknotes is prohibited. Administration of Control Imports and Import Payments Exchange control is administered by the Sub-Directo- rate of Credit and External Finance of the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, foreign inward direct investment, and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either ,direct or through the intermediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Adminis- tration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and Foreign Trade Regulations in the 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain imports from the Canary Islands, mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. A few imports from all sources are prohib- ited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (e.g., sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of cer- tain commodities, including rice, are linked to pur- chases of the domestic product. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. V ir tua l ly all imports originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France also are free from quantitative restrictions. As a rule, imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is deter- mined annually by the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports from such countries and special quotas for imports from countries with which Ivory 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Coast maintains bilateral trade agreements.2 The pro- gram also includes indicative quotas for the EEC coun- tries. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to in- dustrial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, con- tained in separate liberalized lists, may be imported freely from any source, from the former OEEC coun- tries, or from Canada and the United States, respec- tively. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or bank- notes issued by other Operations Account countries up to CFAF 10,000. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the UMOA, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 25,000 if they made no currency declara- tion upon entry. Otherwise, they may take out the 2 Algeria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, and United Arab Republic. 228 amount declared, after adjustment for any amounts con- verted into CFA francs or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs in Ivory Coast. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and For- eign Trade Regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Oper- ations Account country must be surrendered within two months of the due date but not, in principle, more than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destina- tion. All export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at over CFAF 250,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct invest- ment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to for- eign securities, these control measures do not apply ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries. All investment abroad by residents of Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days, following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from author- ization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to •Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. IVORY COAST finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authori- zation. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1970 January 16. Notice No. 19 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 69-488 of November 21, 1969. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meeting the follow- ing conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 50 million; (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. (3) Loans taken up abroad by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or taken up by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Minister if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publication of Decree No. 69-488 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sion of existing borrowings and advance repayment. January 21. Notice No. 20 was issued concerning expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Ivory Coast and of national ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). The Notice was modified on March 3 by Notice No. 20 bis. January 22. Decree No. 69-572 of December 29, 1969 prohibited the importation from all sources of sacks of any material, both new and used. February 4. Decree No. 70-73 was issued concerning certain financial transactions with foreign countries. For purposes of this Decree, foreign countries were defined as all countries other than Ivory Coast. It revoked Decree No. 67-286 of June 30, 1967. The prior authorization of the Minister was required for: (1) the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institu- tions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms or institutions; and (3) any publicity with a view to placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when relating to loans guaranteed by the Ivory Coast Government or relating to shares simi- lar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Ivory Coast had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold; and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a weight to be announced by the Minister. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Opera- tions Account countries outside the West African Mon- etary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. February 15. By virtue of Order No. 7758 of November 27, 1969 (published on March 5, 1970), the number of commodities of EEC origin for which quotas were established was reduced further. 230 April 2. Order No. 708 provided that the export and import by travelers of gold objects (other than coins and ingots) up to a combined weight of 250 grams could be effected without prior authorization. April 10. Notice No. 18 of November 12, 1969 con- cerning domiciliation of import and export transactions by traders resident in France was amended. May 6. Authorized banks were informed that the forms for the prior declaration of inward and outward direct investments were being discontinued and were being replaced by the letter in which the applicant communicates the required details to his bank. May 22. Notice No. 21 raised the value beyond which exports to foreign countries require domiciliation from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 250,000. May 26. A trade agreement was concluded with Japan. June 30. Order No. 1504 increased the basic tourist travel allowance from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 75,000 a person a year. New definitions were provided of "resi- dent travelers" and "nonresident travelers." July 1. Decree No. 70-343 of May 25, 1970 prohib- ited the importation of green coffee (in grain or broken) and of roasted or semiroasted coffee in bulk from all sources, with the exception that imports of green Arabica coffees could still be authorized. August 1. It was announced that Ivory Coast had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. August 19. Ordinance No. 70-506 made the customs duties of the minimum tariff definitely applicable to commodities of Japanese origin; they had been made applicable provisionally by Ordinance No. 68-55 of February 2, 1968. August 22. Notice No. 22 to authorized banks amended Notice No. 2 of December 31, 1968. Foreign Accounts in Francs could henceforth be credited freely with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, when mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by for- eign correspondents of authorized banks. (Order No. 2556 of October 2 amended Order No. 8816 of December 23, 1968 accordingly.) Previously, the BCEAO did not redeem its banknotes when presented by residents of foreign countries and they could not be credited to nonresident accounts. October 15. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to banks. The banks' reporting requirements with respect to their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1,3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Ja- maica Dollar or J$l = US$1.20. The currency is freely convertible into sterling at parity, subject to banking commissions. Exchange rates for other currencies, ex- cept the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, which also have a fixed official relationship with sterling, are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market; the Bank of Jamaica maintains official buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the Canadian dollar. The Bank maintains fixed buying and selling rates % of 1 per cent either side of parity for the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and To- bago dollar. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling; on De- cember 31, 1970 these charges on dealings in sterling with the commercial banks were nil on inward trans- fers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The commercial banks apply the same commission charges in dealing with their customers, with an additional charge of %G of 1 per cent on inward transfers in the form of demand or sight items. The result is a selling rate of J$2.0150 per <£ stg. 1 and buying rates of J$2.00 for telegraphic transfers and J$ 1.99875 for sight or demand drafts. For dealings in East Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars, however, the commercial banks charge a commission of % of 1 per cent, buying and selling. There is a "bourse" (interbank exchange market) in which all commercial banks participate and in which only U. S. dollars and Canadian dollars are traded. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Ministry is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers and have authority to re- lease foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allow- ances, and certain other payments. Most import are regulated by the Trade Administrator, who is responsi- ble to the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency.1 Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Ac- count or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, proceeds f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in any specified currency 2 or in sterling f rom an account (other than a Rhodesian ac- count) of a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authori- zation. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. The commercial banks are empowered to open Ex- ternal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, except Rhodesia. The f u n ds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign cur- rencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of fore ign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale of sterling and Jamaica dollar securities or other capital proceeds) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable ei- ther optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition; the income from such securi- ties, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are re- deemable, are normally available for credit to an Exter- nal Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresi- dent owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the United Kingdom's decision to dispense with Blocked Accounts, Jamaica decided to continue blocking procedures but on a less rigid basis. The as- sets of residents emigrating to countries outside the 1 Foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area currencies. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Sterling Area after July 1966, however, are restricted for a period of four years, as before. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.3 All imports originating in mainland China, Japan, the CMEA countries, Rhodesia, South Africa, or Cuba require individual import licenses. Li- censes for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essentiality. A number of tariff items or groups of tar iff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to in- dividual licensing irrespective of country of origin un- less the goods originate in and are consigned from Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vin- cent, or Trinidad and Tobago. The special schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are as- signed to importers according to their past perform- ance, e.g., certain types of footwear (for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator against allotted quotas); (2) goods which are prohib- ited, e.g., automobiles with a wheel base over 116 inches, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus products, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; and (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from other countries may be made by cred- iting an External Account or by purchasing non-Ster- ling Area currency from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, to- gether with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange con- trol approval is required for advance payments preced- ing shipment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent consump- tion tax (2l/2 per cent on coloring materials), whether they are imported or manufactured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs, plus the customs duty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Sterling 3 The open general license applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 232 Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments for invisibles originating outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Bona fide current payments are not restricted. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For payments for certain other purposes, e.g., insur- ance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of J$500 for each journey for travel other than for business and professional rea- sons outside the Sterling Area is made available auto- matically to residents by the authorized dealers; the central bank authorizes the release of additional amounts for bona fide tourist travel. Facilities for travel for business and professional reasons outside the Sterling Area may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J$40 a day for a period of one month. Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocations. Author- ized dealers may, subject to the presentation of sup- porting evidence, sell non-Sterling Area currency for the following: refunds of income tax due to nonresi- dents; consular fees without limit, as well as transfers from the Ministry of External Affairs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; up to a limit of J$2,000 for (1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and refund of premiums due to nonresi- dent insurers, and (3) subscriptions to trade organiza- tions; up to a limit of J$4,000 for .commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of news- paper and magazine articles, photographs, strip car- toons, etc.; up to a limit of J$5,000, specified payments that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured parties under life or endowment insurance poli- cies, and agents' expenses and fees due by Jamaican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies. Requests for additional amounts or for pur- poses for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other notes, with the exception of U. K. notes, not exceeding J$20Q in value. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$20 may be freely exported by post or air express to any country ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution not on the prohibited list.4 Where the value exceeds J$20, the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural prod- ucts, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique furni- ture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area curren- cies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in Sterling Area currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, notes of other Sterling Area territories up to an aggregate value of J$20 a traveler, and any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of non-Sterling Area cur- rencies to a local authorized dealer. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to or investments in the Sterling Area by residents of Jamaica. Investments in non-Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, and such securities must be purchased with invest- ment currency, which may be obtained only in the United Kingdom. The sale of securities, whether ster- ling securities or foreign currency securities, by resi- dents of Jamaica to nonresidents of the Sterling Area may be allowed, provided that the full proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in non-Ster- ling Area currency; the latter must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica. Purchases of property for personal use outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be purchased only through the United Kingdom and only with investment currency. Residents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which cannot exceed J$500 in a calendar year from each donor, to residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made freely by residents. Direct investments in other coun- tries are only permitted through the investment cur- rency market in the United Kingdom. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents of Jamaica for which "approved status" is sought require 4 Exports to Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, South Africa, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam are prohib- ited. JAMAICA the approval of the exchange control authorities (which is usually granted) and must be made in the currency appropriate to the country of permanent residence of the investor, in External Account sterling, or in goods and services in lieu of cash. To qualify for approved status, an enterprise must have adequate capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted approved status, repatriation of the capital (including any appre- ciation in va lue) is permitted at any time; remittances of profits and dividends are permitted when the appli- cation is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Remittances of profits resulting from foreign invest- ment in respect of which approved status was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a resident) may have to be effected through the mecha- nism of Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). In practice, under a procedure intro- duced in 1968, all direct or portfolio investment in Jamaica by nonresidents of the Sterling Area, with the exception of investment in land, is guaranteed repatria- tion at the market rate of exchange. Payments for amortization of, and interest on, for- eign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling Area) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents of the Sterling Area are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican compa- nies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, persons and firms are considered to be nonres- idents when they are resident outside the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. Authorized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authori- ties, make loans or overdrafts to non-Sterling Area resi- dents up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Authorized dealers may also without reference to the exchange control authorities make loans or overdrafts to resident companies or branches controlled by non- residents of the Sterling Area, up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not specifically precluded under some prior conditional permission from the exchange control authorities. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Transfers to beneficiaries resident outside Jamaica under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their nationality outside the Sterling Area may transfer all their sterling assets at the official market rate of exchange. Jamaican nationals emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area are granted a settling-in 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any sterling assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years but may at any time be transferred outside the Sterling Area through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 During the year, a number of commodities were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; only selected instances are mentioned below. February 2. The East Caribbean Currency Authority became a party to the intraregional settlements agree- ment between the central banks of Jamaica, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago. Hence this agreement was extended to include the East Caribbean dollar issued on behalf of Barbados, the Leeward Islands (Antigua, St. Kitts, and Montserrat), and the Windward Islands (Grenada, St. Vincent, St. Lucia, and Dominica). February 24. The Exchange Control (Import and Export) (Amendment) Order 1970 came into effect. The Order made the existing limit of J$20 on the import and export of Jamaica currency notes by travel- ers applicable also to the Cayman Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands, where Jamaica currency is legal tender; previously, these were not subject to limi- tation. February 24. The Exchange Control (Payments) Order 1970 came into effect. The proceeds of all exports, including exports to Sterling Area countries, were required to be surrendered by the exporter through the banking system. Previously, the surrender requirement for exports was limited to exports outside the Sterling Area. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area had to be received either in any specified currency or in sterling from an account (other than a Rhodesian account) of a person resident outside the Sterling Area. March 31. The Jamaica pound ceased to be legal tender. U. K. coins ceased to be legal tender in Jamaica. April 2. All items of clothing, fully manufactured or semimanufactured, required a specific import license. April 17. The Bank of Jamaica abolished its exchange commission of %e of 1 per cent for the pur- chase of sterling against Jamaica currency. The charge of % of 1 per cent on the sale of sterling against Jamaica currency remained unchanged. May 28. The Bank of Jamaica made available redis- counting facilities serving to finance the export of man- ufactured goods, particularly to the CARIFTA countries and the Bahamas. June 18. Road construction and pavement equipment was made subject to specific import licensing. October 22. It was announced that a major foreign bank with a branch in Jamaica would in 1971 transfer its banking business to a local company, in which Jamaican ownership would eventually rise to 51 per cent. November 9. It was announced that all Canadian financial institutions with branches in Jamaica had agreed to a 51 per cent Jamaican share in their equity. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen or ¥360.00 = US$1. The official limits of buying and selling rates for U .S. dollars (spo t), which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper limit) and ¥357.30 (lower l im i t), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to author- ized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term char- acter require the approval of the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases that of the Minister of Finance only) after deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capital invest- ments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, and receipts may be obtained in any of the des- ignated receivable currencies;* receipts in other currencies require an individual license. Settlements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rho- desia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may in principle be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other authorized transactions incidental thereto, with yen proceeds from sales of designated receiva- 1 In addition to yen, these are Australian dollars, Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. The prescription of currency was abolished with effect from June 10, 1971. ble foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with balances outstanding on July 31, 1969 on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts (see below), and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on pay- ments from these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are limited mainly to proceeds from the sales of debenture and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisi- tion and to yen in excess of US$50,000 which emi- grants of foreign nationality leaving Japan permanently were allowed prior to May 1, 1970 (when this limit was removed) to take out of Japan. Balances outstand- ing on July 31, 1969 were permitted to be transferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or to be remitted abroad. Balances accrued after that date are not con- vertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to 30 per cent of the bal- ance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher.2 Withdrawals from these accounts are authorized for certain pur- poses, such as meeting the outlays involved in manag- ing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresi- dents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized freely, thus ena- bling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated invest- ments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts without having been placed in Foreign Inves- tors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject 2 With effect from February 1, 1971, balances outstanding on December 31, 1970 could be transferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or remitted abroad, provided this was done prior to April 30, 1971. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but most private imports are liberalized from all sources. There are different licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises some 90 items,3 in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certif- icate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon applica- tion. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement, by MITI. (2) Under the Automatic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and without any restric- tion. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are free of quantitative restriction since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the author- ized banks, on application. All items subject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include certain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and raw and manufactured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for imports. When the settlement proposal is not in accord- ance with one of the standard methods (i.e., when advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four months after customs clearance), prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Interna- tional Trade and Industry. Payments to other countries for invisibles also require approval, but current pay- ments are not restricted and most such payments are approved freely by authorized banks without any limi- tation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism and other travel for personal reasons, an allowance equiva- lent to US$1,000 a person a trip, plus up to US$100 of any unused allowances from previous trips, is automati- 3 With effect from January 1, 1971, ten of these items were liberal- ized; they included breakfast cereals, whisky, and all color film not previously liberalized. 236 cally made available (US$2,0004 for business travel); for additional amounts, special authorization is required and is given whenever the application is a bona fide one. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination. Residents may freely make payments abroad up to US$100 a person a year for any purpose. Certain insurance and technical assistance contracts require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; without such approval, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank cer- tification"), in order that the requirements concerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on cer- tain goods to control their export to communist coun- tries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and staple foods); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposi- tion of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on steel, pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and cer- tain textiles). Exports under processing and consign- ment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the "standard" method also require individ- ual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in gen- eral, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within five months after sight or within six months after shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 10 days from the date of acquisition. However, trading con- cerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold for- eign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U. S. dollars and/or sterling from exports and invisibles for a maxi- mum of 20 days; during this period, they may use the 4 Raised to US$3,000 a person a trip on February 1, 1971, when the regulations affecting allocations for student expenses abroad also were made more liberal and remittances of personal gifts, endow- ments, and family loans were fully liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange to make approved payments for their imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, ren- dering the service, etc., but contracts for services per- formed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to indi- vidual licensing. Receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to facilitate payments for current invisibles, specified residents (shipping companies, etc.) are authorized to keep for- eign currency deposit accounts with banks in the desig- nated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance w i th, the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are in principle sub- ject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks for portfolio investment are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: when total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted industry remains below 25 per cent, or up to 15 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry,5 and up to 7 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acquired by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for participation in management is subject (except in the case of newly established compa- nies in the liberalized industries or in certain circum- stances when participation in management is obtained by the purchase of securities within the percentage limits mentioned above) to individual screening, but it is approved in principle if no adverse effect on the Jap- anese economy is expected. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned surplus or revalua- tion of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three 6 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other trans- portation, electric and gas utilities, banks, mining, fishery, and broad- casting. JAPAN months from the date of acquisition. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisi- tion: proceeds from the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on deben- tures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from tech- nological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds from the sale of vali- dated stock, as well as transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of validated deben- tures and beneficiary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen with- drawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, pro- vided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licens- ing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreigri companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with approved pro- cedures are permitted to remit their profits and princi- pal abroad. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases the approval of the Minister of Finance only) after deliberation by the Foreign Invest- ment Council. However, foreign investment aimed at setting up joint ventures in new enterprises in those industries listed in Categories A and B of the Liberali- zation List are automatically approved by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases only the Minister of Finance). For foreign investment in the industries listed in Category A (447 industries) the automatic approval will be given only if the foreign capital ratio does not exceed 50 per cent, while invest- ments in Category B (77 industries) will be automati- cally approved without restriction on the extent of foreign participation. Even where investments for 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN establishing new enterprises in the 524 liberalized industries are concerned, however, individual screening is required in the following instances: (1) when the setting up of new companies is only nominal and when these companies may be actually scheduled for eventual merger with companies already in existence; (2) when foreign capital may have the controlling power over management in the industries listed in Category A; or (3) when foreign participation is considered exception- ally detrimental to Japan's interests. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval. Residents are not normally permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use, and purchases of for- eign securities abroad are only permitted to Japanese investment trusts and are subject to global ceilings.6 Automatic approval is given by the Bank of Japan for the making of certain direct investments not exceeding US$1 million. Japanese emigrants may remit up to US$10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies from their assets to their new country of domicile sub- ject only to verification by an authorized bank; addi- tional amounts may be remitted subject to verification by the Bank of Japan. Emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domi- cile any amount of personal assets, subject to verifica- tion by the Bank of Japan. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Gold Domestic producers sell their production, subject to government guidance, to gold ingot dealers at ¥ 660 a gram for domestic industrial and dental use. From time to time the Ministry of Finance through its Special Account for Precious Metals purchases gold in overseas markets for resale at ¥ 660 a gram to mining compa- nies, which must resell in turn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. Residents other than gold producers and industrial users are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Japan. Changes during 1970 February 14. Imports of 9 of the 118 items on the negative list were liberalized, including certain motor vehicles for the transport of persons, automobile chas- 6 On January 18, 1971, Japanese life and nonlife insurance companies were permitted to purchase listed foreign securities up to an overall limit of US$100 million. 238 sis fitted with engines, certain woolen fabrics, and cer- tain wines. March 1. The automatic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel and other travel for personal reasons was raised from US$700 to US$1,000 a person a trip. April 1. Imports of 11 items on the negative list were liberalized, including dried dates, roasted coffee, certain cinematographic color film, and machine tools manufactured one year or more ago. April 16. Japanese investment trusts were permitted to purchase listed foreign securities up to an overall limit of US$100 million. May 1. Import duties on small passenger automo- biles were reduced considerably. May 1. The amount up to which foreign exchange banks could approve payments in respect of copyright was raised from US$1,000 to US$5,000; the corre- sponding ceiling for the cost of participation in trade fairs abroad was raised from US$5,000 to US$10,000. The automatic approval limit allowing residents to remit abroad up to US$50 a person a year for any purpose other than travel was raised to US$100. Japa- nese firms no longer needed Bank of Japan approval to pay in yen for air transportation and local expenses of customers invited from abroad. May 1. The automatic approval limit of US$50,000 on the amount of personal assets that a foreign national could take out of Japan upon emigration was removed, and such emigrants could freely take out any amount of personal funds, subject to verification by the Bank of Japan. May 1. The automatic approval limit for the transfer of personal assets by emigrants of Japanese nationality was raised from US$5,000 to US$10,000. May 15. The differential between the interest rates at which the Bank of Japan discounts export bills and domestic trade bills was reduced when export bill rates were increased by about 1 percentage point on average. On October 28, the differential was further reduced when the basic discount rate was lowered by 0.25 per- centage point. May 18. The 1 per cent import deposit requirement on all commodities was reduced to zero, but the legal framework for the application of the deposit system was retained. June 1. The Bank of Japan took measures to provide the authorized banks with yen funds for financing imports outside their rediscount and loan quotas, at the bank rate, up to 15 per cent of the total import usance they granted to customers. July 1. The basic tourist allowance could be supple- mented by the equivalent of US$100 of unused allow- ances left over from previous trips. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN July 1. The amount of foreign currency that may be held for numismatic purposes was raised from the equivalent of US$30 to US$100. August 17. The Chairman of the Foreign Investment Council recommended to the Minister of Finance that the fourth stage of the liberalization program for inward direct investment be advanced by about six months. (On January 14, 1971 it was announced that the fourth stage would begin in September 1971.) September 1. The Government introduced the third stage of its liberalization program for inward direct investment, transferring 27 industries from Category A to Category B, expanding the scope of 44 industries liberalized in 1967 and 1969, and adding 315 new industries to Category A and 8 new industries to Cate- gory B. This brought the number of liberalized indus- tries up from 204 to 524. September 1. The automatic approval limit for direct to investment abroad was raised from US$200,000 US$1 million. September 1. Imports of 8 items on the negative list were liberalized, including coke, margarine, tap- ioca, and sago. September 1. The 20 per cent ceiling for automatic approval on foreign investors' acquisitions for portfolio investment of stocks in existing Japanese companies in nonrestricted industries was raised; henceforth, approval was automatic if foreign holdings remained below 25 per cent of the total capital. September 10. An acceleration of the import liberali- zation program was announced; 10 items on the nega- tive list would be removed by the end of the year, 20 more by the end of April 1971, and at least 20 by the end of September 1971. November 30. The Bank of Japan ceased purchasing export usance bills at a price based on the bankers' acceptance rate in New York. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar or JD 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank's official limits for the U. S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1 and commercial banks deal with the public within these limits. The rates of the Central Bank of Jordan for the pound sterling fluc- tuate within 1 per cent either side of parity, which is JD 1 = «£ 1 3s. 4d. The sterling rates of the Central Bank and the commercial banks on December 31, 1970 were JD 1 = <£! 3s. 5d. buying and JD 1 = <£! 3s. 4d. selling.1 Authorized banks deal in non-Sterling Area currencies other than U. S. dollars at rates usually based on the rates in the New York market. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of %o of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Relations Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange licenses up to a permitted annual limit for payments for educational expenses of Jordani- ans studying abroad. Import policy is formulated by an Import Committee, which includes the Director of Supply, Imports, and Exports and the Deputy Gover- nor of the Central Bank of Jordan. The Import Com- mittee presents its recommendations to the Minister of National Economy, who has the sole authority to decide on each proposal. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to resi- dents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such payments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than the United Arab Republic must be made in ster- ling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any converti- ble currency; payments for goods of U. S. origin, how- 1 In addition to U. S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Central Bank maintains official quotations for deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss francs. 240 ever, must be made only in U. S. dollars. All settle- ments with the United Arab Republic except those for U. A. R. rice exports (paid for in U. S. dollars outside the clearing arrangements) must be made in pounds sterling through clearing accounts under the bilateral payments agreement with that country. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be col- lected, and surrendered where required, as follows: from residents of the Sterling Area, in resident sterling or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan; from resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than the United Arab Republic, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent resi- dence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Cen- tral Bank is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated non- resident accounts, transfers from External Accounts to Sterling Area Accounts, and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items 2 from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries and imports cov- ered by the Arab Common Market Agreement), require import licenses if their c. & f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of National Economy, except for certain items3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalcoholic bever- ages; cigarettes; diesjel-engined cars, lorries, and buses; macaroni, spaghetti, and similar products; military uniforms; and liquid batter- ies. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agri- cultural commodities are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margarine, and other vegetable fats; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; petro- leum products (except aviation fue l ); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned leather; amusement machines; blankets; woolen rugs; paper napkins and similar products; dry batteries; shaving lotion; and toothpaste. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea, jute fabrics and jute bags, certain iron and steel products, certain woven cotton fabrics, and cotton yarn must obtain specified minimum proportions of their annual requirements of these commodities from India; some of these may be imported only from India. Import licenses are valid for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importation within the period of validity of the license. Imports should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are subject to a penalty of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value; the penalty is 1 per cent, however, for raw materials deemed essential by the Ministry of National Economy and for certain machinery and equipment, and government imports are exempt.4 Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license from the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange license may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of %o of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. Most imported commodities are subject to an import tax of 4 per cent of the c. & f. value, paya- ble on the issue of the import license. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. With this exception, all pay- ments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents trav- eling abroad; expenses for education; expenses for medi- cal treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. The exchange allowance for travel to countries other than the Syrian Arab Republic and Lebanon is the equiva- lent of JD 16 a person a day for business travel and JD 12 a person a day for other travel (half of these amounts for children under 15) for trips of up to 30 JORDAN days; each person may annually make three business trips and two tourist trips. For family support, an annual allowance of between JD 600 and JD 1,200 for each donor is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to the ceiling of JD 600-1,200. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. Residents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 100 in any combination of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out for- eign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. Proceeds from exports to Arab League countries of agricultural products and locally manufactured goods are exempt from the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tanning company, the cement plant, and the petroleum refinery; also exempt are proceeds from exports to Iran of agricul- tural products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (including sterling) must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency (including sterling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capi- tal require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective Janu- ary 16, 1967 (Law No. 1 of 1967), profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted, without limita- 4 Effective October 24, 1970 owners of certain firms damaged in the September civil disturbances were temporarily permitted to import their requirements through ports other than Aqaba without payment of the penalty. 5 No approval is given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equiva- lent in foreign currency. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN tion, in the currency of the original investment. After two years repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign cur- rency in which the original investment was made. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provi- sions. All transactions under the investment law require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of National Economy on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The Central Bank has issued four gold coins under the Gold and Silver Coins Regulation No. 61 of 1968; these coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to non- residents and to domestic numismatists. Changes during 1970 May 23. The limit of JD 100 on the amount of Jor- danian currency that travelers could bring in was removed. August 3. New exchange allowances for travel abroad and family remittances went into effect. For travel to any country other than the Syrian Arab Republic or Lebanon, each adult person was permitted foreign exchange up to JD 16 a day for business travel and JD 12 a day for other travel (half of these amounts for children under 15) for trips of up to 30 days, and each individual could make three business trips and two tourist trips a year. The number of trips to Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic remained unrestricted and on each such trip foreign and domestic currency (notes and coins) up to a combined value of JD 100 could be taken out, as previously. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 600-1,200 for each donor was permitted. These amendments resulted in a moderate increase in the travel allowance and some sim- plification of the regulations. As regards family support, there were formerly no specific regulations other than those governing remittances in the form of postal orders, and applications were considered on their merits. October 1. A trade and payments agreement with the United Arab Republic, concluded on August 29, came into effect. In addition to minimum trade targets, it provided for fu ll exemption by January 1, 1971 of mutual trade f rom all customs duties, fees, and export or import taxes. All bilateral trade, except rice exports by the United Arab Republic, would be settled through two clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling which the two Central Banks opened in each other's name. October 7. The operations of money-changers were suspended for three weeks. When they were allowed to resume business they were subject to stricter supervi- sion. October 24. Certain temporary measures were intro- duced to help individuals and enterprises recover from the effects of civil disturbances. The owners of dam- aged firms were permitted to import their requirements through ports other than Aqaba without being subject to the payment of any penalty. Government depart- ments and the armed forces were instructed for a period of three months to purchase their requirements from domestic sources, regardless of price, provided that the quality was comparable. December 2. The amount of Jordanian and for- eign currency that travelers to non-Arab countries may take out was raised from JD 25 to JD 100. December 31. The trade agreement with India was extended in amended form until the end of 1973. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling or KSh7.14286 = US$1. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Tanzania shillings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shillings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par.1 In transactions with authorized banks, the Cen- tral Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shil- lings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Kenya shillings; its buying and selling rates for sterling in such transactions, which differ from the parity rate of £1.00 = KSh 17.14291 by ¥32 and Vie per cent, are K Sh 17.1376 and K Sh 17.1536, respectively. The Central Bank deals with the Govern- ment in pounds sterling at the parity rate of £1.00 = KSh 17.1429. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currencies2 other than sterling and U.S. dollars, except occasionally on behalf of the Gov- ernment. Banks in Kenya base their rates for such for- eign currencies on the current market rates in London. Rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Kenya on the basis of London buying and selling rates. The Central Bank deals forward in ster- ling and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their contracts with importers and exporters only; trad- ers' forward exchange contracts require Central Bank approval when they exceed three months. The Kenya shilling circulates concurrently with the East African shilling previously issued by the East African Currency Board, which has ceased to be legal tender and is being withdrawn from circulation. East African shillings continue to be exchanged at the rate of K Sh 20 for EA Sh 20, but East African shillings imported with specific exchange control approval by banks are redeemed at a rate of K Sh 17.1429 for EA Sh 20. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance and Economic Planning has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank of Kenya. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to coun- tries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing 1 All dealings in Uganda banknotes are suspended. 2 All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shil- ling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities and the export of certain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; settlements with Tanza- nia and Uganda, however, normally are effected in East African currency.3 Payments to residents of coun- tries in the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Kenya shillings from a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in ster- ling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 4 that is not a Ster- ling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remittances to South Africa also are prohibited, with the exception of those of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya or by the East African Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held, with exchange control approval, by residents of other Ster- ling Area countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They 3 East African currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shil- lings, and Uganda shillings. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East African shilling. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Kenyan residents, with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Ac- counts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by residents of any country outside the Sterling Area. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Tanzania and Uganda and other pay- ments due by residents of other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Tanzania and Uganda to Kenyan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya; pro- vided that permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Kenya or else- where in the Sterling Area and for purchases in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold from authorized dealers. Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authori- ties in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the benefi- cial ownership of residents of South Africa or Rhode- sia) may be used for the purchase in Kenya of speci- fied bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya ;5 the 5 Such securities must be payable in East African currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 244 redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferab le, and interest is freely transferable to non- residents as and when it accrues. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Kenya, and to Blocked Accounts in Tanzan ia and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; for protective reasons, certain other imports are not being licensed. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tan- zania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported f rom these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Spe- cific import licenses are required for all commodities originating in Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, East- ern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Rumania, or North Viet-Nam. Most goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license; but some require a specific license. A number of commodities may be imported only by or to the order of the Kenya National Trading Corporation. When the importer has obtained a license from the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is pro- vided automatically by an Authorized bank upon appli- cation and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur- rent payments without limitation or up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as other cur- rent payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain catego- ries of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as sav- ings up to 33% per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover family maintenance, educa- tion expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories6 may continue to effect remittances from salaries as above but those who avail themselves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facili- ties upon emigration. Remittances to South Africa, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. The transfer of rents and dividends derived in whole or in part from property in Kenya owned by a nonresi- dent is limited to K Sh 20,000 a year for each benefici- ary. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories by adults holding round-trip tickets is KSh 4,000 a person (KSh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.7 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Africa. Travelers to destinations outside Tan- zania and Uganda may take out up to K Sh 250 in domestic currency notes; travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes. Nonresident travel- ers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural prod- ucts require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licens- ing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. Exports of coffee are made through the intermediary of the Coffee Marketing Board. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be col- lected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya shillings.8 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank. •Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territo- ries as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 7 Banks are not permitted, without specific approval, to sell exchange in excess of KSh200 a day (subject to a maximum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Burundi, Demo- cratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. 8 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed K Sh 250 in value for each trav- eler unless arriving direct from Tanzania or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in (but see footnote 1). The import by travelers of East African shilling notes from countries other than Tanzania or Uganda is prohibited. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers in respect of legacies and inheritances to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Transfers to Rhodesia or South Africa are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employ- ees who have opted for remittance of savings from sal- aries, persons leaving Kenya permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each family unit if they take up residence in a country outside the Scheduled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, during a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All remaining funds must be cred- ited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange control approval and is subject to a ceiling. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not nor- mally permitted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than KSh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler require exchange control approval. The import of the following from all sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and from Tanzania and Uganda when origi- nating in other countries is subject to individual licens- ing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued freely; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1970 During the year, a number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to licensing when originating from countries other than Tanzania and Uganda. The import monopoly of the Kenya National Trading Corporation was extended to additional com- modities. January 1. The Customs Tariff Act 1969, containing preferential duties for goods of EEC origin, came into force. January 28. Subject to prior approval of the Exchange Control Office, the basic travel allowance for pilgrimages to Mecca henceforth could be taken up more often than once every two years. May 1. Exports of unprocessed tea required a license. May 5. The Central Bank instructed authorized banks to suspend all dealings in Uganda currency notes. July 7. Exports of processed tea required a license. July 10. The Government announced its intention to acquire a majority shareholding in one of the three main commercial banks operating in Kenya. Agreement on the details was reached with the bank concerned on December 7. August 14. The repurchase of Kenya banknotes from banks outside Tanzania and Uganda was suspended, except for amounts covered by a statement that the notes had been acquired prior to August 14 from trav- elers selling not more than K Sh 250 a person. September 11. Legal Notice No. 186 went into effect which provided that except under special circumstances import licenses for a number of specified commodities would not be issued. They included wheat flour, coffee, cocoa, beer, cigarettes, gasoline, transistor radios, furni- ture, gramophone records, matches, radios, television sets, record players, tape recorders, textile yarn, and passenger cars exceeding 1,700 c.c. September 26. A limit of K Sh 20,000 per annum per beneficiary was imposed on transfers of rents derived from property in Kenya owned by a nonresi- dent under a personal or partnership name (irrespec- tive of the number of properties from which the rents are derived), and on transfers of dividends due to non- resident shareholders that are derived in whole or in part from rents. Any amounts of such rents or divi- dends in excess of K Sh 20,000 were to be placed to the credit of a Blocked Account and subject to the existing regulations governing these accounts. The restrictions were not applied where the nonresident investment was covered by a certificate of approved enterprise. September 26. The facilities for remittances of sav- ings by expatriates were extended to certain categories of the self-employed. September 26. The exchange allocations for business travel to the United States and Canada were increased from K Sh 400 to K Sh 450 a day and those for busi- ness travel to other countries outside the East African Community from K Sh 200 to K Sh 300 a day. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Khmer Repub- lic has been agreed with the Fund. The Cambodian Kiel is defined as a monetary unit containing 0.016 gram of fine gold, corresponding to CR 55.54 per US$1. The National Bank of Cambodia (the central bank) maintains official quotations for 17 currencies1 and "indicative" quotations for the Portuguese escudo. Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phnom-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 2 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates an- nounced by the National Bank plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mutually agreed with their customers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank. Arbitrage operations involving convertible currencies may be authorized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in the Khmer Republic, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom- Pehn exchange market. Forward exchange transactions for up to three months are permitted in respect of imports and exports. Contracts may be renewed once for a three-month period. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank; this office is empowered to authorize all opera- tions related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of import and export controls and issues import and export licen- ces which must be domiciled with either of the two state banks, the Khmer Bank of Commerce or the National Credit Bank (Inadana Jati B a n k ); the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with 5 countries with which the Khmer Republic has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and the U. S. S. R. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bul- garia and Poland in U. S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports from other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a currency ac- ceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the invest- ment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be main- tained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Khmer nationals stay- ing abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresi- dents, and foreigners staying in the Khmer Republic but not recognized as residents, may ma in ta in Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. There are separate regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts that may be used to finance transactions in the free trade area of Kompong-Som. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, with- out permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom-Penh market of the cur- rency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) payments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in the Khmer Republic and receipts from repayments on Khmer stocks and bonds and on other investments made in the Khmer Republic after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the ac- counts. These accounts may be freely debited for nor- mal expenses in the Khmer Republic and, provided that it is quoted on the Phnom-Penh market, for purchases of the currency of the country of the account holder (except in the form of bankno tes). Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same coun- try may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be cred- ited with (1) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier re- lated to the country of the account holder; (2) pro- ceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of partici- 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC pations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repay- ments of Khmer stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since Janu- ary 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inherit- ance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his family up to CR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of CR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in the Khmer Republic (stocks and bonds, build- ings, land, etc.). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debi- ted for (1) purchases in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to or increases in the capital of, a Khmer firm; (3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account re- lated to the country of the account holder; (6) living expenses in the Khmer, Republic of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corpora- tion, bank, etc.); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon au- thorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in the Khmer Republic, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder and his family. They may freely be credited with the proceeds from foreign currency sold on the Phnom-Penh market and with interest on funds held in the account con- cerned. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in the Khmer Republic by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) 248 wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Khmer nationals employed by Khmer firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in the Khmer Republic by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in the Khmer Republic, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods, such as beer and cotton yarn, for protective rea- sons. Practically all imports require specific licenses. An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the National Bank places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of for- eign exchange to pay for the programed imports. SONEXIM (Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation) and ENAPHAR (Entreprise Nationale Pharmaceutique) are the sole recipients of official for- eign exchange allocations for imports; the latter main- tains a monopoly over imports of pharmaceuticals, while SONEXIM may import either for its own ac- count or for the account of private importers or public enterprises. Private importers are allowed to import a wide range of products listed by the Ministry of Com- merce, either by using EFAC funds or under the com- pensation trade system (echanges compenses). Imports under the latter system are financed only with receipts from exports of commodities listed by the Ministry of Commerce. Rubber producers, who are not entitled to EFAC facilities, may retain 10 per cent of repatriated rubber export proceeds to finance imports of equipment and raw materials. Furthermore, certain imports outside the import program, i.e., imports without exchange (imports sans devises), are permitted if no official ex- change is requested; the list of these imports issued by the Ministry of Commerce includes not only imports of a personal nature, but also capital equipment, industrial raw materials, vehicles, etc. Imports of certain products from neighboring countries require no formalities other than payment of a special customs tax and are subject to a maximum permissible value a person a month (troc taxe or taxed barter). Many commodities are subject to a compensation charge (perequation) of 5, 20, 30, 50, or 80 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licen- ses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A foreigner working in the Khmer Republic and receiving a monthly salary exceeding CR 5,000 in Phnom-Penh, or CR 3,500 in the provinces, may in principle transfer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary —after payment of taxes—plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent wife stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, par- ents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional per- centage of transferable income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a maximum of 10 per cent of the net monthly in- come for each family.) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of CR 20,000 a worker a month. Trans- fer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Khmer nation- als and working in the private sector are not permitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in the Khmer Republic may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income from rent, provided that the rent ex- ceeds CR 5,000 for landlords living in Phnom-Penh or CR 3,500 for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign landlords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in the Khmer Republic, when leaving the country permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in the Khmer Republic, provided that the savings have been regularly deposited with an authorized bank in the Khmer Republic. The transfer of the full net profits from nonresident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 is authorized, subject to proof that the investment was made with foreign currency other than the former Indochinese piastre; otherwise, the transfer of profits on pre-1956 investments is limited to 80 per cent and is permitted only if the investment is recognized as useful to the economic development of the Khmer Republic. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made after May 31, 1956 may be trans- ferred annually. Khmer nationals studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allocations equivalent to up to CR 6,000 for Asian countries and up to CR 7,000 for any other country, in addition to installation, holiday, and clothing allowances. The allocation of foreign ex- change for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. However, business travel may be financed with funds in EFAC accounts. The export of Khmer currency is prohibited and for- eign tourists are not allowed to reconvert riels into for- eign currency. KHMER REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Practically all exports require specific licenses. SONEXIM retains the monopoly over exports of rub- ber, corn, and precious and semiprecious stones. Ten per cent of the proceeds from exports of all commod- ities except rubber may be retained in EFAC accounts, denominated in foreign currencies, which can be utilized to pay for business travel and for imports of specified commodities.2 Exporters of rubber may retain 10 per cent of their repatriated export proceeds to pay for im- ports of equipment and raw materials. A number of export items listed by the Ministry of Commerce can be effected under the compensation trade system, which permits the use of export proceeds in payment of im- ports of the same commodities that are eligible for financing w i th EFAC funds. There is also a special list of products that may be exported on the basis of taxed barter with neighboring countries. With the exceptions mentioned in th is paragraph, export proceeds must be surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered.3 Only authorized banks and approved hotels may purchase foreign exchange from travelers, and only in currencies that are officially quoted by the National Bank. Ap- proved hotels must surrender to authorized banks the foreign exchange that they acquire from foreign travel- ers. Hotel bills may be remitted in riels by foreign citi- zens on official travel upon producing a statement is- sued by their embassy certifying the payment of these expenses through its own funds held in clearing accounts or from the sale of foreign currencies. The import of Khmer currency is prohibited. For- eign exchange must be declared by travelers when en- tering the Khmer Republic; if imported by residents, such exchange must be surrendered within seven days from the day of entry into the Khmer Republic. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Khmer nationals and leave the Khmer Republic permanently may trans- fer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be au- thorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans originally granted in foreign currency may be considered transferable income. 2 SONEXIM is entitled to EFAC privileges only in respect of ex- ports of commodities over which it does not have an export monopoly. 3 In January 1971, hotels, restaurants, jewelers, etc., were permitted to retain in EFAC accounts 10 per cent of the foreign currency pro- ceeds from their sales to foreign nationals. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Ministry of Fi- nance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Khmer participation and that its employees should be Khmer nationals. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic development of the country and not involving monopoly or special privi- lege may be authorized. Proceeds from the liquidation of authorized investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of investment made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested after May 31, 1956 is guar- anteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resi- dent investments; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of operation) may be accorded to foreign investment considered as exceptionally useful to the Khmer economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Khmer Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties, SONEXIM, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the National Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and SONEXIM. Changes during 1970 Pursuant to the policy guidelines introduced in 1969, the role of the state in external trade was fur- ther de-emphasized. The commodity coverage of SONEXIM's monopoly over exports and imports was greatly reduced, but SONEXIM and ENAPHARM remained the sole recipients of official foreign exchange allocations for imports. These allocations declined sharply in 1970. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated. January 7. Notice No. 90 of the National Exchange Office permitted residents and nonresidents to sell to state commercial banks (or their delegated offices) any foreign banknotes in their possession and denominated 250 in currencies quoted by the National Bank, at the daily rate published by the National Bank. January 15. Notice No. 89 of January 3 of the National Exchange Office extended the compensation trade system (echanges compenses), which was appli- cable at the time only to SONEXIM, to transactions with payments agreement countries, provided that transactions were settled in convertible currencies out- side the clearing accounts. January 30. Instruction No. 81 of the National Exchange Office freely permitted residents to open for- eign currency accounts with the two state commercial banks and to deposit therein any foreign currencies in their possession that were quoted by the National Bank. On May 23, Instruction No. 83 permitted such accounts to be opened also at the National Bank. February 12. Law No. 426 amended Law No. 149 of November 16, 1963 and restricted the state foreign trade monopoly to (1) the export of rice, rice deriva- tives, corn, rubber, and precious and semiprecious stones; and (2) the import of commodities to be listed by the Ministry of Commerce for which official foreign exchange was allocated. February 12. A new Banking Law came into force. Private banks were again permitted to engage in medium-term and long-term financing but not in financ- ing of imports and exports or in short-term credit opera- tions. (Law No. 425.) March 2. Notice No. 298 of the Ministry of Com- merce listed the commodities that could and those that could not be exported en echanges compenses; the full export proceeds of the latter had to be repatriated, sub- ject to 10 per cent EFAC retention. It also listed the products which could be imported with EFAC funds, as well as the applicable rates of per equation. Finally, the Notice stipulated that only the items listed as im- portable with EFAC funds could be imported en echanges compenses. March 3. Decision No. 10 of the Ministry of Com- merce and its Notice No. 299 re-established compen- sation charges (perequations) on a large number of imports, at 5, 20, 30, 50, or 80 per cent of the c.i.f. value. March 5. Letter No. 317 of the Ministry of Com- merce listed the products subject to the export monop- oly of SONEXIM as rice and rice products, rubber, corn, and precious and semiprecious stones. It also contained a revised list of imports to be financed with official foreign exchange and effected by SONEXIM, together with the applicable rates of perequation. The latter list was revised by Letters Nos. 639 and 653 of April 11 and 17, 1970. March 6. Notice No. 91 of the National Exchange Office re-established the compensation trade system ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (echanges compenses) for private licensed importers and exporters and abolished it for SONEXIM by revok- ing Notice No. 89. Imports and exports under the system (previously limited to Thailand, Hong Kong, and Singapore) were permitted from and to all coun- tries, but all settlements had to take place in converti- ble currencies. (On May 25, Notice No. 96 also per- mitted settlements through clearing accounts.) March 9. Instruction No. 82 of the National Exchange Office permitted rubber producers to retain 10 per cent of the repatriated proceeds from rubber exports (irrespective of the currency received) to be used for the import —through SONEXIM—of equip- ment and raw materials. March 10. Notice No. 92 of the National Exchange Office re-established the EFAC scheme for the reten- tion of export proceeds. The permitted retention was 10 per cent irrespective of the currency received (6 per cent for sales on consignment). The transfer of EFAC funds by the holder to any third person required the prior approval of the Exchange Office. (On Janu- ary 23, 1971, the right to retain in EFAC accounts 10 per cent of the foreign currency proceeds of their sales to foreign customers was extended to hotels, restaurants, jewelers, handicraft stores, etc.) March 19. Circular No. 3 of the National Exchange Office clarified that under echanges compenses settle- ments with payments agreement countries could be made either through the agreement accounts or in con- vertible currencies. March 19. Circular No. 2 of the National Exchange Office extended the EFAC retention scheme to SONEXIM for exports of those commodities over which it did not have a monopoly. April 3. Notice No. 93 of the National Exchange Office revoked the import monopoly of the SKD (Societe Khmere des Distilleries) for alcoholic bever- ages. April 17. Letter No. 653 of the Ministry of Com- KHMER REPUBLIC merce revised the list of imports that were subject to compensation charges (perequations) and were fi- nanced with official foreign exchange and effected by SONEXIM. April 17. Notice No. 640 amending Notice No. 298 of the Ministry of Commerce added many commodities to the list of those that could be imported with EFAC funds and en echanges compenses. Official exchange would no longer be allocated for these new items and they would no longer be imported through SONEXIM. April 29. Circular No. 5 of the National Exchange Office suspended temporar i ly the mon th ly exchange al- location for Khmer scholarship trainees abroad and the allocation for their installation expenses. October 15. Instruction No. 84 of the National Ex- change Office of October 5 revoked Instruction No. 56 concerning Nonresident Accounts. Henceforth, such ac- counts could be freely credited with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the Phnom-Penh exchange market and with interest on funds held in the account; also, the accounts could freely be debited for the living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the holder and his fam i ly, whereas previously special approval was re- quired to withdraw more than CR 2,000 a family a day for this purpose. November 4. The Banking Law was amended. Henceforth, any private or public bank, domestic or foreign, could engage in all bank ing activities. Pre- viously, only the two state banks could engage in short-term financing and accept short-term deposits. November 16. Revised import and export lists were published, replacing those of Notices Nos. 298 and 299. November 16. The Ministry of Commerce issued a modified list of imports subject to compensation charges and fur ther limited the import monopoly of SONEXIM. (Notice No. 01-DCE.) November 30. Law No. 450 terminated SONEXIM's export monopoly for rice and rice products. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been estab- lished with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate determined in an exchange certificate market. On December 31, 1970 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U. S. dollar were W 316.20 and W 317.10, respectively, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 315.90 and W 317.40, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 45 days are issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by resi- dents. All foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certifi- cates are in principle required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for payments for imports financed under U. S. aid programs, and payments by commercial banks in connection with their banking transactions, etc. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It car- ries out policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above functions in part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and pay- ments related to invisibles. The Korea Exchange Bank, whose capital is wholly subscribed by the Government and the Bank of Korea, has taken over from the latter all its international banking and foreign exchange busi- ness. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is pre- pared by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports financed by foreign grants and loans are pro- gramed separately by the Economic Planning Board in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try, and import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency ing account has been established. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in pre- scribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and Korean workers abroad may main- tain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold time deposit accounts in U. S. dollars with the foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to oper- ate in the Masan Free Export Zone may maintain cur- rent deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zone. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licen- ses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating in communist countries and for certain imports from all other countries. Imports are divided into three categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX imports), those paid for with foreign aid funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations (PAC imports). KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. Korea has a bilat- eral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clear- 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are auto- matically approved) unless they are in a list of re- stricted or prohibited commodities. Automatic approval items (719 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and certain raw materials and capital goods.2 Restricted items (520) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. Prohib- ited items (73) are mainly luxury goods, items prohib- ited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. For- eign aid imports are classified as either automatic approval items or restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported with foreign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. For purposes of licensing imports from specified countries, the posi- tion of Korea's balance of trade with the country con- cerned is taken into account. Import licenses are granted only to registered trad- ers; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$300,000 of exports is required each year. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most categories of imports by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of exchange certificates and /or local currency at the time of applying for import licenses. The exchange certificate deposits are, in effect, advance payments offset against the import settlement; the won equivalent of any amount of deposit in excess of the import settle- ment is repaid to the importer at the time of the release of the relative bill of lading. Imports by the pri- vate sector under U. S. aid programs are subject to prior won cash payments of part of the import settle- ment, and imports with Japanese Property and Claims Funds (PAC imports) are subject to prior payments of part of the import settlement in exchange certificates. Advance deposits for KFX imports, other than raw materials for the production of exports, range between 30 per cent and 150 per cent according to the nature of the import and the commercial terms of payment; the rates are 100 per cent or 150 per cent for imports against sight letters of credit, 30 per cent for docu- ments against acceptance imports, and 50 per cent for imports on a documents against payment basis and bonded warehouse transaction terms. Advance deposits 2 Some automatic approval items require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry when imported from Japan. KOREA for KFX imports of raw materials for exports range between zero and 30 per cent according to the com- modity and the status of the export production, i.e., whether the latter is covered by an export contract or an export letter of credit; in some cases bank guarantees covering the balance of the import value in excess of the advance deposit are also required. Imports of equipment and facilities for export industries financed with domestic loans in foreign exchange are not subject to advance deposits; payment (in exchange certificates) of 10 per cent of the import value is required upon the release of bills of lading, with the balance of the payment to be settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. Imports for leading exporters and eligible for settle- ment on a one-year documents against acceptance basis, as well as imports of the Government and of government- operated enterprises, are exempt from advance deposit requirements. The Ministry of Finance has authority to apply to any import commodity that it deems nonessential a spe- cial customs ta r i f f, which provides for an additional tax of 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the differential between estimated wholesale value of the commodity and import price plus normal profit. The authority has been invoked in respect of a number of commodities. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates administratively by up to 50 percentage points. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licen- ses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. Moreover, exporters whose foreign exchange earnings exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 a year may use part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promotion purposes, such as maintaining overseas branches. In addition, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$2,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches; the authorization is US$3,000 a month if exports to the country concerned exceed US$500,000, and US$5,000 a month if exports to the country concerned exceed US$1 million. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign.exchange up to the equivalent of US$30 a day; they may purchase an additional US$200 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a monthly living allowance of up to US$300. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonres- ident foreigners need not register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA when departing, they may reconvert unused won notes into U .S. dollars up to US$100, subject to confirma- tion of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 without such confirmation); nonresident foreigners bringing in nonspecified currencies may be requested to register the amounts involved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia or communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries, are prohibited. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be sur- rendered to a foreign exchange bank at the market rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange cer- tificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be* sold to a foreign exchange bank or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authorization. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guaran- tee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on con- version and remittance of legitimate profits and divi- dends, and up to 20 per cent of the original capital invested plus any reinvestment may be repatriated each year, two years from the commencement of operations in Korea. Gold With the exception of holdings of gold coins for numismatic purposes, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry in Korea or abroad.3 Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Changes During 1970 January 1. The foreign exchange budget for 1970 went into effect. Imports of nonessential goods and 3 On March 2, 1971, certain commemorative gold coins were issued. These are legal tender but do not circulate in Korea. 254 imports on a deferred payment basis would be subject to additional restriction. Export industries would be given increased support in the form of foreign currency loans. January 1. The trade program for the first half of 1970 came into full effect. The provisions concerning restricted and prohibited imports had gone into effect upon publication on November 28, 1969. January 1. Revised regulations regarding eligibility as a trader went into effect. Licenses to qualify as a trader would be granted only to those with an export record of at least US$300,000 during the preceding year; pre- viously the minimum requirement was US$200,000. Moreover, imports by individual traders were to be limited as follows effective July 1, 1970: registered traders with an export record of less than US$1 million a year would be permitted to import in six months up to 200 per cent of their exports during the previous six months, while traders with an export record of US$1 million or more and "blue card" holders would not be subject to such a limitation. Imports of raw materials for their own use by manufacturer-exporters would also be free of any such limitation. January 7. The MCI announced that the D /A import ceiling for 1970 would be US$160 million, of which US$40 million would be reserved for leading exporters. Traders would be permitted D/A imports up to 10 per cent of their exports in the previous year; this linking percentage had been 15 per cent in 1969. However, for leading exporters the ratio would vary from 15 to 25 per cent, depending on their export performance. Sup- pliers of domestic raw materials for export processing would be permitted D/A imports of up to 20 per cent, compared with 50 per cent in 1969, in relation to their raw material supply records. January 9: The amount of export loans that could be extended to exporters (including suppliers to the UN forces in Korea) was raised from W 220 to W 240 per US$1. January 9. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry announced that sugar refineries must purchase glucose in the domestic market equal to 4 per cent of the value of their raw sugar imports. January 20. Criteria governing the allocation of for- eign exchange for the operation of the overseas branches of traders were revised. A trader who ex- ported more than US$1 million to a country where he had a branch would be granted up to US$5,000 a month; for exports of US$0.5 million to US$1.0 mil- lion the amount would be US$3,000 a month, and for exports of less than US$0.5 million it would be US$2,000 a month. Formerly, this allocation was related to the global export performance of the traders. January 24. The MCI announced regulations govern- ing the importation of production facilities for export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution processing from the US$50 million of government for- eign exchange allocated for this purpose in 1970. January 24. Imports of ingot or lump aluminum were transferrred from automatic approval to the restricted list. January 29. The higher advance import deposit rates for countries within ten days' shipping distance of Korea (including Japan) were eliminated and rates henceforth were uniformly applied, regardless of country of origin. January 29. There was a substantial liberalization of the prior approval system for imports from countries with which Korea had a notably unfavorable trade bal- ance (including Japan ); several items, including gela- tin, steel ingots and strips, and some 2,379 items from the machinery and transport equipment group (SITC 7) were no longer subject to such prior import approval. February 6. The MCI tightened regulations govern- ing traders/ licenses. These would have to be renewed every six months and would only be renewed if the trader had an export record of at least US$150,000 in the previous six months. Eligibility conditions were also established for permission for traders to open branches abroad. February 18. The number of prescribed currencies in which export proceeds must be obtained was increased from 9 tq (cid:5). The added currencies were Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Netherlands guilders, and Norwegian kroner. February 24. The Government announced that it would finance medium-term and long-term export credits to the extent of 80 per cent of the export value for such items as ships, cement, and fertilizers; 60 per cent of the export value for textile facilities; and up to 50 per cent for overseas investments. February 27. Enterprises in which there was foreign investment participation, either under a loan agreement signed by the Government or under provisions of the Foreign Capital Inducement Law, were accorded per- mission to irnport machinery and raw materials for their own needs regardless of the normal regulations in this respect. March 1. Revised lists were announced of industries eligible for total or partial tariff exemption and of items eligible for importation by them on such preferential terms. The new lists, effective from March 1 to August 31, included 31 industries and 289 products, compared with 38 industries and 399 products in the previous lists. March 3. A double taxation treaty was signed with Japan. It included a stipulation that taxation of Japa- nese investment income in Korea (including interest, dividends, and royalties) would not exceed 12 per cent. KOREA March 11. All restrictions were abolished on exports on a bonded warehouse transactions basis to any area with a Korean bonded warehouse. April 3. The MCI announced regulations governing the import of industrial facilities for exports when financed through foreign currency loans gran ted by branches of foreign banks in Seoul. April 10. Procedures for the exclusive export of wigs to the Un i ted States were revised to require exporters with such exclusive rights to export also to other mar- kets. May 4. Imports of certain hides and skins were transferred f rom the restricted to the automatic approval list and those o.f a lum inum coated iron plates were t rans fe r red f ro rp the prohibited to the restricted list. May 30. The MCI published the trade program for the second half of 1970. Three import items (and five subitems) were shifted from the restricted to the auto- matic approval category and one item (and eight sub- items) in the reverse direction. On the export side, six items were shifted from the automatic approval to the restricted category and three items in the opposite directipn. July 4. Procedures were announced for the import of 55 quota items in the second half of 1970 and US$3.0 million was allocated for their import. Only trading firms who had received awards on Export Day were eligible to import such quota items and the max imum amount for each applicant was US$20,000. August 10. Under procedures published for the allo- cation of U. S. aid funds (in the form of Supporting Assistance, Special Letter of Credit funds, and U. S. P. ^. 480 f u n d s ), Supporting Assistance and Special Lejter of Credit funds were made available for 21 basic items in the exclusive list and 376 basic items in the concurrent list, while P. L. 480 f u n ds were avail- able only for wheat and raw cotton. August 12. Regulations governing imports from countries with which Korea had a heavy trade deficit were amended to eliminate the requirement of prior approval for 1,257 out of the 5,403 items previously requiring prior approval. The items affected consisted of 735 machinery items (including air-conditioners), 512 watch parts, and 10 other manufac tured goods. August 31. Five SITC items, consisting of construc- tion equipment with an import value in 1969 of US$21.9 million, were transferred from the automatic approval to the restricted import category. October 22. Three automatic approval export items (radios, loudspeakers, and fixed capacitors) and one export prohibited item (copper concentrates with a zinc content of 15 per cent or more) were made subject to licensing. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA October 27. The Korea Exchange Bank announced regulations for the allocation of the US$10 million U. S. AID program loan for 1970. Out of this amount, US$5 million was immediately made available for the pro- curement of listed machinery and parts. November 27. It was announced that the allocation of exchange for travel purposes would be entrusted to the Bank of Korea with effect from January 1, 1971. December 4. The trade program for the first half of 1971 was announced. Sixteen restricted import items were shifted to the automatic approval category and 7 automatic approval import items (including iron and steel shapes, plates, and sections) to the restricted import list. One item (ginseng wine) was transferred from the automatic approval to the restricted category for export. These shifts went into effect immediately. December 24. The National Assembly passed an amendment to the Trade Transactions Law. Article 2, as amended, enabled traders designated by the law to trade with specified communist countries. December 26. The foreign exchange budget for 1971 was published. It provided that imports of luxury goods, nonessentials, and items with a customs duty of over 50 per cent would be further restricted. The system of margin rates would be revised if there were any unexpected import increases in 1971. December 31. The MCI ruled that certain additional import items could be imported only when linked to exports. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar or KD 1 = US$2.80. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.8550 buying, and KD 0.8593 selling, per £ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official market are based on London market rates. There is a free market in which exchange other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South African rand may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, differ from official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 31, 1970, the average selling rate for the U. S. dollar in the official market was KD 0.35925 per US$1, and in the free market it was within a range of KD 0.3590 to KD 0.3595 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwait. Control is exercised only over the provision of exchange in the official market for payments to territo- ries outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is admin- istered by the Central Bank of Kuwait. Authority to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operating in Kuwait. Individual Letters of Recommen- dation, required for other payments through the official market in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Central Bank. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescription of cur- rency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to other countries in the Sterling Area except South Africa may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the country to which the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart from payments to the Government, payments from countries outside the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received through the official market. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by res- idents and those held by nonresidents. imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered import- ers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodi- ties, which are also valid for one year. All imports from Israel, including imports of Israeli manufacture and those that contain Israeli materials or are manufac- tured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of oxygen, certain steel pipes, alco- holic beverages, and used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Sterling Area currencies other than South African rand are provided freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free market. The banks operating in Kuwait are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non-sterling cur- rency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency for payments for imports from out- side the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a full set of documents covering the import and, when pay- ment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwait. When payment is made in a non-sterling currency, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommendation which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos or Rhodesian currency in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain further authorizations under new Letters of Recommendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT For payments for goods purchased in countries out- side the Sterling Area for resale without shipment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the official market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to, Kuwait; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the official market need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries except South Africa, or to residents of any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the free market. Access to the official market is subject to authorization as stated below. Payments through the official market to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling cur- rency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrange- ments on payments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks operating in Kuwait have been granted general authority to sell to Kuwaiti nationals non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian currency up to the equivalent of KD 500 a person for each trip for travel and other sundry expenses outside the Sterling Area, without specific reference to the Central Bank. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three months; this allowance is applicable to all members of the fam i ly who accompany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South African currency. For all other payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia which are made through the official market, a separate Letter of Recommendation must be obtained from the Central Bank for each payment. Such authori- zation will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals work- ing in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on for- eign capital invested in Kuwait will be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presentation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommendation will be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. 258 The Central Bank will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allow- ance in any currency except Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South African rand of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each family. This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose, including the transfer of capital. This exchange is automatically available; larger amounts require special authorization by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohibited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammu- nition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. Ail exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be dis- posed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal or receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South Afri- can rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South African cur- rency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establish- ment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum companies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. Although the Central Bank supervises outward capi- tal movements to all destinations, no restrictions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling Area except South Africa, or to any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation from the Central Bank is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in which non- resident capital is involved is liquidated, permission is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution given automatically for the repatriation through the official market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency appropriate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Minis- try of Finance and Oil, Kuwa i ti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital through the official market, within limits approved by the exchange control authorities, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia for investment purposes, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the pur- pose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Israel, Portugal, and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by residents through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a fam i ly a year (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which is granted only in exceptional cases. KUWAIT Gold The mon e t a ry au thor i t ies and merchan ts registered with the Ministry of Trade and Industry may import and export gold in any fo rm, provided that such gold is not less t h an 18-carat fine; gold jewe lry, however, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly hall- ma rked. K uw a i ti n a t ion a ls may f ree ly and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or ab road. O ther res iden ts may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any fo rm are exempt from all customs duties and taxes. Changes during 1970 May 31. The prohibition on the import of second- hand buses and t rucks was l i f t ed for gaso l ine-fue led vehicles. August 16. Kuwa it ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been estab- lished with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; U. S. dollars purchased by the Laotian Govern- ment from the U. S. Government under a special arrangement; government requirements, other than those for certain types of debt servicing; 20 per cent or 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates (depending on grade); 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber; 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U. S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge com- missions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. A Foreign Exchange Opera- tions Fund intervenes in the official free market to maintain orderly conditions and to counteract the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with any amount in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts may be made freely. Balances on them may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the official rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange Office of the Ministry of Finance authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import program, authorizes payments at the official rate for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The five commercial banks are authorized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U. S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral pay- ments agreement with the U. S. S. R. providing for pay- 1 Since April 1967, the official free market rate has been main- tained at approximately K 505 per US$1. 260 ments to be made through a clearing account main- tained in French francs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, soft drinks, and plastic bags are prohibited, although import licen- ses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accord- ance with the import program financed by the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. Imports under the aid program are payable at the official rate, as are all public sector imports. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States (rice,2 specified petroleum products, agri- cultural and industrial machinery, and trucks and buses); certain of these commodities may not be imported f rom specified countries.3 However, those petroleum products for which specific U .S. aid is still made available may be imported from some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the U. S. import program, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses. After clearance in respect of valua- tion, the exchange licenses automatically become import licenses; the valuation is checked by the U. S. Agency for International Development. Under the pro- gram, suppliers are paid direct from the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U. S. Government at the Chase Manha t tan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, after the goods involved have been certified as conforming to the lists of commodities qualified for foreign financing. The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import pro- gram, with the exception of imports to meet govern- ment requirements. However, importers are free to obtain exchange through the free market for any amount of imports. 2 In practice, no rice has been imported under the U. S. import program in the past few years. 3 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and communist countries (defined as not including Yugoslavia). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under the U. S. import program, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened; no covering payment is prescribed for tractors, but the importer must pay 50 per cent after the sale or within six months of customs clearance, w i th the balance to be paid within three years. For customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import program are regarded as a part of the import payment. There is an annual foreign exchange budget for payments for invisibles payable at the official rate. The categories of payments for invisi- bles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange in accordance with this budget are as fol- lows: official transfers, covering official expenditures by the Government; some loan service payments by cer- tain public enterprises; private transfers, covering installation allowances of civil servants abroad and study abroad (initial installation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, transport, other miscellaneous expenses, and family maintenance); and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. All other pay- ments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be con- ducted through the free market. Travelers may take out any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authoriza- tion, but licenses are automatically issued. Twenty or 40 per cent of proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates, depending on grade, 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber, and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surrendered in U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the National Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks, sold in the free market, or used for any other purpose. With the exception of one of the two tin companies, all exporters are required to deposit with the National Bank, prior to domiciling the export license with this Bank, the por- tion of their anticipated export proceeds that is subject to surrender; the National Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been annotated by the National Bank to show that this requirement has LAOS been complied with. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U. S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is sub- ject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles The following must be surrendered at the official rate: (1) foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos (other than salaries of foreign employees); (2) settlements received by any Laotian resident from foreign insurance companies; and (3) resident companies' foreign exchange earnings from services and other invisibles. Companies surren- dering their earnings from invisibles are entitled to repurchase at the official rate 50 per cent of the exchange sold. Certain public enterprises, such as Royal Air Lao, are exempt from the surrender require- ment. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may flow in and out, free from any exchange control requirements, through the free market. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form within the country. Banks and other residents who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely import gold in any form, sub- ject to payment of 5.5 per cent customs duty (calcu- lated at the free market rate for the U. S. dollar and US$35 an ounce). Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or juridical persons other than the monetary authorities are prohibited, with the exception of gold coins issued under Decree No. 7847PC of June 26, 1969. Commercial imports and exports of articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold are freely permitted. Changes during 1970 During the year, allocations of foreign exchange at the official rate for a number of current invisibles were reduced and the exchange for certain types of debt servicing by the public sector was largely purchased in the free market. January. Letters of credit for imports of tractors under the U. S. import program ceased to be subject to a 50 per cent covering'payment. February 2. A new Foreign Investment Law was promulgated, offering increased facilities to new foreign investments in Lads. March 1. The principal tin mining company was instructed to pay at the time of receiving the export permit 50 per cent of its anticipated export proceeds that were subject to surrender requirements. Previously, 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS this company had been allowed to postpone surrender for a period of three to six months. September 17. The import duty on gold was reduced from 7.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent. November 12. By virtue of Decree No. 7847PC of June 26, 1969, gold coins in five different denomina- tions were issued in 10,000 sets. The coins were, legal tender. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947 a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1970 were about LL 3.2490 per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of man- ufacturing plants. Import licenses for raw and refined sugar are conditional on purchases of domestic sugar. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of industrial machinery). All other commodi- ties may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, Rumania, and United Arab Republic. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, lead, and t i n) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items —such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, apples, Egyptian cotton, news- print, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain met- als —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exports of apples to A rab countries are limited to a specified monthly quota. Re-exports to North Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of National Econ- omy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. However, the import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Service for the Protection of the Con- sumer. Changes during 1970 January 19. A law imposing a stamp tax of 0.2 per cent on the c.i.f. value of all import, export, and transit trade transactions was promulgated. The tax would be applicable also to imports and exports of gold and for- eign banknotes. On January 28, the law was amended to exempt export and transit trade transactions as well as exports and imports of gold and banknotes. February 19. Imports of additional required a license. July 16. A new trade agreement was concluded with the U. S. S. R. It provided that settlements henceforth would take place in convertible currencies. The existing clearing agreement with the U. S. S. R. was terminated with effect from February 3, 1971. garments 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO Exchange and Trade System Lesotho's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 — US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other cur- rencies. Lesotho is regarded as forming part of the South African exchange control territory x and of the Sterling Area. By virtue of a Customs Union Agreement with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, Lesotho also is part of the South African customs area. No restrictions are applied on trade or payments with the members of the common customs and monetary area. In relation to countries outside this area, Lesotho's exchange controls are applied similarly to those of South Africa, although Lesotho treats certain transactions in securities within the Sterling Area in a more liberal manner. In princi- ple, payments for transactions that are considered cur- rent transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward capital transfers are considered on their merits. All payments to nonres- idents for current invisibles require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. For some types of transac- tions the approval authority is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult (R 800 for a child). Separately, there is another basic allocation of R 250 a year for an adult (R 100 for a child) for travel to certain neigh- boring territories.2 All imports and exports pass through South Africa. Imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations, since few Lesotho firms import direct from countries other than South Africa; direct imports from such countries, however, are not subject to South Africa's import regulations. Lesotho's own trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion and are confined in practice to exports of diamonds; permits are issued by the Depart- ment of Industry and Commerce. Inward capital transfers do not require exchange control approval. Outward capital transfers to Sterling Area countries are freely permitted, provided that the funds have been generated within Lesotho. Applications for capital transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area are generally treated in accordance with South Africa's exchange control regulations. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969 to manufac tur ing activities approved by a Pioneer Indus- tries Board. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell certain Lesotho gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1970 March 1. A revised Customs Union Agreement with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland came into effect, replacing that of 1910. 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Lesotho are not regarded as residents of South Africa. 2 Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Portuguese East and West Africa, Rhodesia, and Zambia. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar or $1 = US$1. U. S. currency is in cir- culation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses; no imports of cement and shotgun shells are permitted at present. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcotics other than for medici- nal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. In practice, meat is imported only by the Liberian Supply Corporation and petroleum and petroleum products only by the Liberian Refining Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explosives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the Liber- ian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemptions and tariff exemp- tions on construction materials, raw materials, and capi- tal goods to be used in manufacturing operations. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Secretary of the Treasury; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Under the Gold Agreement of 1958, the Bank of Monrovia, acting on behalf of the Govern- ment, purchases unrefined gold from local producers at US$34.00 a troy ounce, gross weight. After refining abroad this gold may be sold on the free market by the Government. Changes during 1970 No significant changes took place during 1970. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Pound or <£L 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 12 currencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Bank of Libya's rates for the U.S. dollar on De- cember 31, 1970 were £L 0.35669 buying, and <£L 0.35759 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were £L 0.85368 and £L 0.85582, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The commer- cial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents or branches. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for currencies other than sterling and U.S. dollars are based on quotations in London, New York, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in for- eign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by an Import and Export Advi- sory Council, under the chairmanship of the Under- secretary of Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy; for certain imports the approval of another Ministry (Interior, Health, Ag- riculture, or Defense) is required. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are a government monopoly. Imports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Bank of Libya. Prescription of Currency The Libyan Arab Republic is a member of the Ster- ling Area. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by debiting or crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account. Settlements with coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel and Rhodesia may be made in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any convertible for- eign currency. All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Bank of Libya, who is gainfully employed in the Libyan Arab Republic and has been staying in the country for less than six years, is permitted under the existing exchange control regula- tions to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan pounds with any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. The six-year limit does not apply to ex- patriates who work for the Government or one of its organizations.2 The Bank of Libya permits, in appropri- ate cases, a nonresident who has stayed in the Libyan Arab Republic for more than six years to continue to maintain a nonresident account. Legitimate earnings from employers of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresi- dent accounts require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Remittances abroad from such accounts maintained by nonresident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those whose contracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident labor- ers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Funds brought into the Libyan Arab Republic by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank in the Republic. Payments re- ceived in the Libyan Arab Republic by such contrac- tors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from the Libyan Arab Republic to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. With the approval of the exchange control authori- ties, funds in blocked accounts (with certain excep- tions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Republic up to <£L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the Libyan Arab Republic by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in the Libyan Arab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to <£L 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify for remittance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked ac- counts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the Libyan Arab Republic permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Ital- ian lire, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U. S. dollars. 2 On February 10, 1971 the six-year limit was removed for expa- triates ga infu l ly employed in the private sector and holding work permits. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to ind iv idual licensing. One list comprises some 43 items or groups of items which re- quire no authorization other than an import license from the Ministry of Economy; these goods include certain cereals, foodstuffs (including dried and canned vegetables), fresh fruits, fru it juices and jams, mineral water, meat, live animals, skins and hides, soft drinks, motor vehicles, agricultural and industrial machinery, and television sets and their spare parts. Goods on the other list, which contains 7 items or groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include weapons, fireworks and explosives, drugs and medi- cines, seeds, olive oil, vegetable and animal oils, sec- ondhand clothing, used machinery, and army surplus goods. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, ciga- rettes, and cigarette paper are subject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports from Israel, Portu- gal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valua- tion. The approval of the Bank of Libya is required for advance payments. Deferred payments and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the au- thorized banks. Imports are subject to customs surcharges and addi- tional customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve ap- plications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to £L 50 in a calendar year for meeting genuine personal commitments of a noncommercial nature, provided that the transfers are not made for family assistance or gifts. They may also approve transfers abroad of up to «£L 750 a year for each student for educational pur- poses as well as allocations for travel as indicated below. Remittances from nonresident accounts may be approved by authorized banks up to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC of the approval authority delegated to the banks, re- qu ire licenses f rom the Bank of Libya. Applications are considered on the ir merits. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of <£L 20 ( < £L 10 for ch i ldren under 12 ); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the Libyan Arab Republic, but are in tended for immediate expenses in the Libyan A rab Republic upon re turn to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of <£L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan A rab Republic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in spe- cial circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of < £L 3 00 in addition to the basic travel allow- ance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of <£L 500 a trip, subject to a maximum of <£L 2,500 in any calendar year. All fares may be set- tled in Libyan pounds in the Libyan Arab Republic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for commodities which are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad) and vegetable oils are prohibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an ex- change office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering the Libyan Arab Republic may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of <£ L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies oper- ating in the Libyan Arab Republic are governed by Pe- troleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be trans- ferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than <£L 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by foreign na- tionals. Foreign participation in new industrial ventures (i.e., after March 20, 1970) is permitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Foreign share holdings in banks have been nationalized. Insur- ance companies and commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees. Real estate in the Libyan Arab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, save in exceptional circumstances specified in a law of May 24, 1960 governing this sub- ject. The net sales proceeds after tax of real estate be- longing to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Nonresident capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Residents require the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to pur- chase real estate situated outside the Libyan Arab Re- public or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the Libyan Arab Republic taking up permanent resi- dence abroad are permitted to transfer up to <£L 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be submitted for the re- lease of the balance of their assets over a number of years. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in the Libyan Arab Republic. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced from time to time; at the end of 1970 this price was < £L 5 19 a kilogram. Provided that a license is obtained from the Ministry of Economy, goldsmiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Bank of Libya must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for processing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1970 March 21. Foreign participation in new industrial ventures was henceforth permitted only on a minority basis and only if it led to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest tech- nology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. April 11. The special allowance that could be ap- proved by authorized banks for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature was reduced from <£L 100 to «£L 50 and its use for fam i ly assistance and gifts was prohibited. April 21. An economic integration agreement was signed with the Sudan and the United Arab Republic. May 2. A law was enacted providing that by July 24, 1971 corporations other than petroleum companies must be 51 per cent Libyan-owned, while partnerships and all companies active in retail or wholesale trade or in the export-import business must be completely owned by Libyans. July 6. All import and distribution activities with re- spect to petroleum products were nationalized and transferred to the Libyan National Oil Corporation. July 21. Certain Italian-owned property in Libyan Arab Republic was nationalized. July 27. Authorized banks were prohibited from issuing and selling foreign currency notes to travelers. December 22. Insurance companies operating in the Libyan Arab Republic were required to have at least 60 per cent state participation in their capital. December 22. A law was issued to nationalize the foreign share holdings in banks and reorganize the banking system. December 23. Oil companies operating in the Libyan Arab Republic were directed to set aside a suitable per- centage of their profits for exploration costs. December 31. The authorized banks were permitted to resume sales of foreign currency notes to travelers. the 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship FMG 277.710 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy francs against French francs at the fixed -rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rates for the other currency concerned, plus or m inus a commission. The Malagasy Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tania, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Malagasy Repub- lic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in prin- cipal financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance, which also supervises borrow- ing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Most of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the authorized banks and the Postal Administration. All payments and receipts between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries are registered, for statis- tical purposes only, by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, through the intermediary of the institution executing the transfer. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are issued by the Malagasy Insti- tute of Issue, which also grants export licenses for gold. Export authorizations are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau (and its provincial offices) or by other specified public agencies, mainly stabilization funds or marketing offices for agricultural products. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area; since the Malagasy Institute of Issue maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Malagasy f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Malagasy bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Mala- gasy Francs, provided that they are mailed direct from abroad to the Malagasy Institute of Issue by the for- eign correspondents of authorized banks. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of Malagasy bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports (mainly edible oils, batteries, certain types of footwear and blankets, and used ju te bags) are subject to licensing, irrespective of origin or port of shipment; the import of certain other items from all sources is prohibited (including certain types of beer, new ju te bags, and new barrels) or sus- pended un t il fu r ther notice ( for example, certain types of pape r ). All other goods that both originate in and are shipped from the French Franc Area, or that origi- nate in and are shipped from EEC countries other than France, may be imported freely. Imports from Rhode- sia are prohibited. Imports of certain wines and electric batteries are conditional on purchases of domestic wine and batteries (jumelage). Imports of cement, sardines, tuna fish, and certain other fish are conditional on purchases of the same products from Senegal and imports of household soap are conditional on purchases of both Senegalese and Ivory Coast household soap. For restricted imports from non-EEC countries out- side the French Franc Area an annual import program is established. The import program is based on the establishment of global quotas that fix the limits up to 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC which specified commodities may be imported. The program includes ceilings for imports from outside the French Franc Area of dairy products and automobiles. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license (or import certificates for liberalized commodities) entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to the approval of the Office of Exter- nal Finance or the Malagasy Institute of Issue. How- ever, residents may at any time make payments to foreign countries up to the equivalent of FMG 15,000, without supporting documentation, provided that such payments are made through an authorized bank and do not constitute installment payments (reglements frac- tionnes). Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of FMG 5,000 remaining after return to the Malagasy Republic must be surrendered. In addition, an exchange allowance equivalent to at most FMG 100,000 a person a year is granted for pilgrimages to Mecca. There also is an exchange allocation for busi- ness travel up to the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip; additional amounts may be requested from the Malagasy Institute of Issue. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Malagasy Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of FMG 25,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Travelers to France and Opera- tions Account countries may take out any amount in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign banknotes and coins declared by them on entry, as well as foreign currency obtained by reconversion of Malagasy banknotes purchased after entry, but not more than FMG 25,000 may be so reconverted. 270 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office; these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petro- leum products. An export license issued by the Foreign Trade Department is required for all commodities valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank and a commitment to repa- triate the proceeds must be undertaken. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or f rom nonresidents must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of Malagasy banknotes and coins and banknotes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All inward and outward transfers must be notified to the Malagasy Institute of Issue once a month to facilitate the compi- lation of the balance of payments; for those in excess of FMG 500,000 the reason must be specified. This notification must be made by the financial intermediary concerned. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic; these controls relate to the transac- tions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution formalities are also required for inward and outward direct investment. With the exception of those over for- eign securities, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in the Malagasy Repub- lic,1 and Malagasy direct investments abroad ,2 must be declared to the Minister of Finance (i.e., to the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance) when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquida- tion of such investments must also be declared. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or for- eign investments in the Malagasy Republic, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days fol- lowing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments involving the purchase, creation, or expansion of a company or enterprise or involving con- trol over it. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in the Malagasy Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Mala- gasy Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Malagasy Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Repub- lic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial 1 Including those made by companies in the Malagasy Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Republic of foreign com- panies. 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Mala- gasy Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Republic. MALAGASY REPUBLIC t ransac t ions e i ther between the Malagasy Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks or credit institutions with special legal status; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed FMG 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The amount of loans referred to under (4) that are f ree of au tho r i z a t ion must be notified to the Minister of Finance when it is more th an FMG 500,000 but less than FMG 50 m i l l i o n. Lend ing abroad is sub ject on ly to exchange control au tho r i z a t ion, and is res t r ic ted. In accordance w i th the Inves tment Code of Septem- ber 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of Decem- ber 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the intro- duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qua l i fy ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a found ing agreement (convention d'eta- blissement); such an agreement requires parliamentary approval. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Malagasy Republic. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the Malagasy Institute of Issue and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con- ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declara- tion. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Ministry of Industry and Mines which, in principle, must deliver it to the Malagasy Institute of Issue after processing. Changes during 1970 March 2. Under the jumelage arrangements, the pro- portion of cement imports that must be of Senegal origin was increased from 50 per cent to 55 per cent, and the proportion of soap imports that must be either of Senegal or Ivory Coast origin was raised from 33% per cent to 35 per cent. The similar ratio set for imports 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC from Senegal of sardines, tuna, and pilchards was 30 per cent. June 1. Order No. 1946 of May 19 came into force. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to for- eign countries was increased from the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person a year to FMG 75,000 a person a year (FMG 37,500 for children under ten). Hence- forth, the entire allocation could be taken up in the form of foreign banknotes, as against the equivalent of FMG 25,000 previously. (Circular No. 11230 of May 19 modified Circular No. 7753 of December 18, 1968 cor- respondingly.) July 28. Decree No. 70-409 established an export premium on tapioca exported to countries outside the French Franc Area. October 10. Order No. 3728 of October 6 came into force. The amount in Malagasy banknotes that resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries could take out was increased from FMG 10,000 to FMG 25,000. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries was increased from the equivalent of FMG 75,000 a person a year to FMG 75,000 a person a trip (FMG 37,500 for children under t en ), with a limit of two trips a year. The exchange allow- ance for business travel to foreign countries, which had been either FMG 10,000 or FMG 15,000 a person a day, depending on the countries to be visited, was increased to a uniform FMG 20,000 a person a day, subject to a limit of FMG 200,000 for each trip. October 10. Circular No. 7106 of October 6 came into force. Authorized banks were empowered to make payments up to the equivalent of FMG 15,000 to for- eign countries at any time, for the account of residents, without asking for supporting documentation, provided that the payments were not installment payments on larger amounts (reglements fractionnes). Such pay- ments would not be deducted from the tourist travel allocation. (Previously, this allowance had been FMG 12,500 a person a year, and the amount trans- ferred was set off against the tourist travel allowance.) Nonresident travelers were permitted to take out the unutilized portion of any foreign means of payment they had brought in, either in the form in which they were imported or as modified by exchange through the intermediary of an authorized bank, as well as any for- eign means of payment acquired from an authorized bank to the debit of a Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs or a Foreign Currency Account. Nonresident travelers could obtain f rom an authorized bank the conversion into foreign banknotes of any Malagasy francs in their possession up to FMG 25,000, provided they could show that these francs had been acquired, after entry and through the intermediary of an author- ized bank, by the sale of foreign exchange or from a Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. The use of credit cards abroad by residents was prohibited. October 22. Order No. 3899 of the same date came into force. Nonresident accounts in the names of authorized banks' correspondents abroad could again be credited with Malagasy banknotes, subject to condi- tions to be specified by circular of the Minister of Finance. (Circular No. 7383 of October 22 in imple- menting the Order provided that Foreign Accounts in Malagasy Francs could be credited with Malagasy banknotes mailed direct from foreign countries to the Malagasy Institute of Issue by foreign correspondents of authorized banks.) 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malawi Pound or <£M 1 = US$2.40.1 The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling. The com- mercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1970, the rate for the U .S. dollar was US$2.40625 buying, and US$2.380625 selling, per «£M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approv- ing normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks designated as authorized dealers. Im- port policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom.2 For prescription of cur- rency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and all other countries except Rhodesia (the External Account Area). Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an Exter- nal Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds from an External Account, or in any non- Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresi- dent Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling 1 On February 15, 1911 the Malawi pound was replaced by a new currency unit, the Malawi kwacha. The par value of the kwacha is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per kwacha or MK1 = US$1.20. The change did not involve any appreciation or depreciation. 2 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi pound (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Malawi) are considered foreign currencies. Area currency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by residents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resi- dent in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Ac- counts. These accounts may be credited with author- ized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, with individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresi- dents to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, or to Nonresident Sched- uled Area Accounts in Malawi, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency from authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Ma- lawi pounds that are held by persons regarded as resi- dents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian External Account. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Ma- lawi for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) trans- fer to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi pounds held with au- thorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresi- dents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances of Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, pro- vided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account bal- 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI ances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restric- tions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Industry to control and regulate the import, export, distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, wholesale price, and retail price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought into operation, will require all importers and exporters to be regis- tered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,3 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported free of license when originating in the Sterling Area or, if originating in certain other countries,4 may be imported under an open general li- cense (with the exception that a limited number of goods from Czechoslovakia and Japan require a specific license). With respect to other countries,5 an import license is required for all commodities except certain items, such as petroleum products, exposed cinemato- graphic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding <£ M 25 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Payments for imports from all countries must be made within six months after the date of import. For- eign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to <£M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires pay- ment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresident Sched- uled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling 3 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, news print and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, hoes, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, and copyright articles. 4 Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Repub- lic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Republic of Korea, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nor- way, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, San Marino, Senegal, So- malia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vatican City, and Yugoslavia. 5 Poland and all countries that are not contracting parties to the GATT. 274 Area currency. Imports from other areas, except Rho- desia, may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Ster- ling Area currency. Imports from all sources are subject to a customs surcharge of 8l/3 per cent of the import duty applica- ble to the commodity concerned when imported from a Commonwealth country other than the United King- dom. Furthermore, a surtax of 5 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of their origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic ex- change allowance for travel is <£M 10 a day for an adult, with a maximum of < £M 3 00 a calendar year, and <£M 5 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a maximum of <£M 150 a calendar year for chil- dren between 10 and 18, and of £,M 100 a year for children under 10. The annual allowance is not cumu- lative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. These allocations are subject to a combined maximum of <£M 1,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, family remittances, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to <£M 10 in Malawi cur- rency and the equivalent of <£M 10 in foreign cur- rency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed £M 50 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities 6 are sub- ject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. 6 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy ma- terials, and certain agricultural and animal products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than <£M 10 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of re- payment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital, in- cluding those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authori- ties that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Malawi; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of divi- dends and profits of foreign-owned companies, pro- vided that no recourse is being made to local borrow- ing. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any for- eign exchange which accrues to them. However, resi- dents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securities) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the country concerned. All income earned from these investments must be re- patriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to £M 7,500, whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of 50 are al- lowed «£M3 ,000 on departure, together with <£M250 for each child, up to a maximum of <£M 4,000 for a family. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed <£M 1,500 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allow- ance on each anniversary of his departure from Ma- lawi, up to a maximum of <£M 4,000. Applications for emigrant's allowances, whether initial or subsequent, MALAWI must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresi- dents or to resident firms controlled directly or indi- rectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to non- resident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. Gold Residents of Malawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 January 28. The approval authority for payments in respect of imports originating in a Sterling Area country but shipped from a non-Sterling Area country was dele- gated to the authorized banks. February 2. Fertilizers required a specific import li- cense. March 27. It was announced that unutilized land on certain estates owned by expatriates would be taken over by the Government. March 24. Newsprint, printing inks, certain paper products, and certain office machinery required a spe- cific import license. On August 21, it was announced that these items could be imported only through the firm Paper and Printing Supplies. April 1. A surtax of 5 per cent was imposed on most goods imported into or manufactured in Malawi. For imported goods, the value for surtax purposes was 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs duty payable. April 28. The ratio of domestic borrowing to foreign capital permitted by nonresident-controlled companies operating in Malawi was reduced from 1:1 to 1:2%. (5:1 for companies engaged in tea and tobacco pro- duction and 2:3 for import substitution industries.) July 13. The Reserve Bank of Malawi instructed local banks not to accept domestic banknotes from banks abroad and ceased to give value for Malawi cur- rency repatriated through banks outside Malawi. The import and export of domestic banknotes up to £M 10 by travelers continued to be allowed. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI July 22. A trade agreement was signed with Japan. July 31. The creation of two state corporations was announced. The Import and Export Company would handle certain imports, exports, wholesale and retail business but would not exercise a monopoly in these activities. The National Insurance Company would pro- vide certain additional insurance coverage facilities, and the public sector would be required to arrange all coverage through the new company. The National Insurance Company began operations on October 1, 1970, but the Import and Export Company did not become operational in 1970. July 31. The open general license for imports became applicable, with certain exceptions, to Japan. August 28. The Malawi Decimal Currency Act No. 30 provided for the replacement of the Malawi pound by a new decimal currency unit, the kwacha, subdi- vided into 100 tambala. The change would take effect from February 15, 1971. October 28. Retroactive to April 1, 1970 the 5 per cent surtax was suspended for goods which in terms of an agreement between the Malawian Government and any other government, organization, institution, body, or person are required to be exempted from surtax. November 2. Certain additional paper products re- quired a specific import license. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Central Bank of Malaysia stands ready to buy Malaysian cur- rency against sterling at M$7.4040 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Malaysian currency for sterling at M$7.2900 per £ stg. 1; no commission is charged. The intervention rates are fixed only against sterling. The Central Bank normally deals at the exchange limits and dealings by the Bank are made only in the spot market. The Bank has not established official buying and selling rates for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area cur- rencies and for specified currencies.1 The rates are cal- culated on the basis of quotations for Malaysian dollars against sterling in the Kuala Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1970, the market rate for the U. S. dollar was M$3.08 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal for- ward in all currencies. Malaysian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. Malaysia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia. Much of the authority for approv- ing normal current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks authorized for this purpose. The author- ity for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise.2 Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and gen- erally follows the prescription of currency arrange- ments and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area, other 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2There are at present five separate customs areas: West Malaysia, excluding Penang; Sabah, excluding Labuan; Sarawak; Penang; and Labuan. Labuan and Penang are free ports. than Rhodesia, may be made either in Malaysian dol- lars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian currency sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malaysian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not yet been unified, although steps toward unification are being taken. Some internal tariffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely under open general license. Depending on the nature and ori- gin of the goods, specific licenses are required for cer- tain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; var- ious conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are sub- ject to quantitative restrictions pending the introduction of protective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from South Africa, Rhodesia, or any territory adminis- tered by either are prohibited. Imports into West Malaysia of confectionery, quicklime, cement, bones and bone meal, all textile fabrics, and all live animals from mainland China are prohibited. Imports into West Malaysia of primates from all sources are prohibited except under specific license; imports of bones, bone meal, and other live animals (except sheep and goats) from Brunei, Burma, Indonesia, the Khmer Republic, Laos, Thailand, and Viet-Nam also require a specific 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA license. All imports into West Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak of goods originating in Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, or Poland require a specific license. In respect of West Malaysia, imports of rice from any country are conditional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from the government reserve stockpile for every ton imported;3 imports of wheat flower, rice bran, and sugar 4 from all sources are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons; licenses for wheat flour and sugar are not being issued. Other goods subject to quantitative restriction in West Malaysia include rolled oats, certain cotton fabrics, jute, and fully assembled motor vehicles. Exchange control approval for import payments is required only when the payee is resident outside the Sterling Area. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all per- mitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are per- mitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Pen- ang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 4 per cent ad valorem, unless they are re-exported ex-bond; a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to com- mercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements permit family remittances to mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a family in any one month, but additional amounts may be transferred through the banking sys- tem. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malay- sia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malaysian notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singa- pore. Nonresident travelers are allowed to take out for- eign currency notes up to the amount declared upon entry. 3 This ratio is varied from time to time depending on the turnover of official stocks. 4 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses listed under specified tariff numbers. 278 Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Malaysian territory. All exports from Malaysia to countries outside the Sterling Area have to be authorized by a bank in Malaysia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. Malay- sian exchange control forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for all such exports valued at M$5,000 or more. This requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South Africa and any territory administered by South Africa are prohibited. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may bring in M$ 1,000; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indo- nesia, and Rhodesia.5 No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes for other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident- owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; otherwise, invest- ment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are not restricted. The transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area of 5 Travelers are allowed to bring in Indian rupee notes up to Rs 270 a person and Indonesian rupiah notes up to Rp 3,000 a person. The import of Rhodesian currency notes is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital held or accruing in Malaysia is generally per- mitted but requires prior exchange control approval. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry or ornaments. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is domestic trad- ing in gold coins other than the S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency (unless these are part of orna- ments, dealing in which is unrestricted). Resident and nonresident travelers between Malaysia and Singapore, however, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one S$150 gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore. Goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control authorities to pur- chase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Furthermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, which may consult the exchange control authorities. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. The importation of gold into West Malaysia is allowed only by author- ized dealers in gold, subject to an overall quota of 40,000 ounces a quarter; a certain amount of gold (5,000 ounces a quarter for Sabah and 7,500 ounces a quarter for Sarawak) is permitted to be imported into East Malaysia solely for the manufacture of ornaments. In both East and West Malaysia, imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import duty and a 4 per cent surtax. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited under the exchange control regulations. Changes during 1970 January 1. Exports of tin ceased to be restricted by quota. January 29. Imports of laminated plastic sheets were made subject to specific licensing. MALAYSIA February 2. Exports of rubber became subject to a sur tax of 2 Malaysian cents a pound whenever the officially published export price exceeded 60 Malaysian cents a pound. April 14. The Exchange Control Act, 1953, as revised up to December 1, 1969, formally came into force. No changes in exchange control policy or proce- dure were involved. May 1. Importers of rice were required to purchase one ton of rice from government stocks for every ton imported. Previously, the ratio had been l : l V i. May 14. The specific licensing requirement was abol- ished for imports of air conditioning machinery and laminated plastic sheets. May 14. Imports of packaged rolled oats and imita- tion leather of PVC were made subject to specific licensing. June 1. The amount of Malaysian currency notes which travelers other than those going to or coming f rom Brunei or Singapore were allowed to take out or bring in without special permission was raised from M$500 to M$ 1,000. June 11. Imports of butter and cotton sewing thread were made subject to specific licensing. July 9. The specific licensing requirements were abol- ished for imports of certain agricultural machinery and tractors. July 9. Imports of hulled oats were made subject to specific licensing. July 16. Imports of compressed gas cylinders were made subject to specific licensing. July 30. Imports of prepared or preserved fish were made subject to specific licensing. September 3. The Customs Duties (Forward Con- tracts) Order, 1955 was revoked. The Order had per- mitted exporters of rubber to register their exports w i th the customs in advance of shipment, and to pay export duty on the price prevailing at the time of registration. October 8. Many types of iron or steel coils, sheets, and plates were made subject to specific licensing. October 8. Imports of rods, angles, and sections of aluminum required a specific license. November 1. The issuance of import licenses for rice was suspended until the end of the year. November 5. Imports of salt, sodium chlorate, ammonium sulphate, and wire ropes required a specific license. November 19. Imports of dyestuffs, pigments, and macaroni, spaghetti, and similar products required a specific license. December 22. The import surtax was increased from 2 per cent to 4 per cent ad valorem. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Mali Franc, defined as a mone- tary unit containing 0.0016 gram of fine gold. The Mali franc is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 =0 .01 French franc. Parity rates for the CFA franc and the U. S. dollar are MF 2 and MF 555.419, respectively. Purchases and sales of French francs, CFA francs, and Malagasy francs are made by the Central Bank of Mali at their respective parities. Rates for other currencies generally are based on those in the Paris exchange market. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with a number of countries (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, below) provide for settlements of transactions covered by these arrangements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified currencies; rates for these specified currencies are based on par values or official parities. The Development Bank of Mali is in charge of set- tlements covered by bilateral payments agreements. Mali's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with France and other Operations Account countries.1 Administration of Control The Minister of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affairs has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral payments agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licen- ses for imports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agree- ments. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Guinea, Hungary, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, the U. S. S. R., the United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.2 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank maintains an Oper- 1 These are countries whose institute of issue maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 The payments arrangements with Morocco and Senegal are inoperative. 280 ations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of Mali banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of all other goods, irrespective of origin, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program drawn up by a joint French-Malian Committee. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the con- vertible area (defined as comprising all other countries, including the French Franc Area). Certain aid-financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de 1'Import-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of five items.3 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX or Unicoop. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover and the number of this employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addition, importers may with an import license import any goods under the EXIC pro- cedure. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. 3 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, and tea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to MF 150,000 a person, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 400,000 a trip.4 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropri- ate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account coun- tries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Trav- elers to other countries may take out MF 250,000 in Mali banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or up to MF 150,000 if no declaration was made. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Oper- ations Account country must be surrendered; export proceeds must normally be collected and repatriated within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports require individual licenses in order to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton from irrigated land, groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the con- trolled export trade, is reserved for SOMIEX or other state enterprises, but certain mixed enterprises may have a share allocated to them. Under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Con- comitante) procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports except those covered by the 4 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an, exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. MALI monopoly of state trading companies and cotton exported by the Compagnie Franchise pour le Deve- loppement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not trans- ferable. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintain- ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are permitted to transfer abroad (1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privileges in respect of their salary. Funds specified under (1) and (2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permit- ted to transfer abroad in ten equal installments funds accruing from the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special foreign accounts with the Central Bank bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is transferable. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali francs owned by nonresidents may be used to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affa irs. Proceeds from the amortization of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. Under an Investment Code of May 23, 1969 and Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to foreign invest- ments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Preferential investment treatment may permit (1) the transfer of profits during a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of proceeds accruing from the liquidation of an investment or (2) the transfer during a period to be established in each case of agreed amounts that would include the value of invest- ments and profits, the maximum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affairs; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1970 January. The import program for 1970 was estab- lished at MF 18.8 billion, compared with MF 15.7 bil- lion in 1969. MF 6.2 billion was allocated to the clear- ing countries and MF 12.6 billion to the convertible area. Unlike the 1969 program, this one included an estimate for EXIC imports. January. Licenses for imports without foreign exchange (licences sans reglement financier) ceased to be issued. January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Algeria was terminated. October 14. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist and business travel to foreign countries were increased by Circular No. 420. Changes were made in the amounts of domestic and other banknotes that resident and nonresident travelers could take out of the coun- try. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta Pound or <£M 1 = US$2.40. The Central Bank's basic rate for the pound sterling on Decem- ber 31, 1970 was <£ lOOVs buying, and £ 99% selling per <£M 100. Commercial bank rates are based on London market rates for sterling against other curren- cies. Certain capital transactions are channeled through the investment currency market in the United King- dom. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance, Customs, and Port; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Agriculture. Cer- tain authorities to approve applications for the alloca- tion of foreign exchange have been delegated to the au- thorized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta is a member of the Sterling Area,1 and settlements between residents of Malta and residents of other Sterling Area countries are made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Malta pounds to an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency.2 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents of Malta and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong), but certain transfers from the former to the latter are subject to exchange control approval. Residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, desig- nated External Accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Ac- counts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non-Sterling Area currency (including banknotes)-, and with Malta or other Sterling Area banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Ster- ling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any 1 Malta's exchange control definition of the Sterling Area Scheduled Territories) includes Rhodesia by general definition. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all non-Sterling Area currencies. (the non-Sterling Area currency (including banknotes) or gold. Blocked Accounts are maintained for nonresidents of Malta for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations may not be transferred outside Malta. The principal type of funds that must be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount of £M 5,000 for each family that may be transferred to the new country of residence; the remaining funds are normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Treasury. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in Malta are prohibited. All imports from Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam, are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of 73 items from any country of origin. Imports from countries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be freely imported under open gen- eral license. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regulations are complied with. Advance payments for imports from outside the Sterling Area require Treasury approval. Payments for Invisibles All payments to other countries, whether inside or outside the Sterling Area, require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks for certain types of payment. Current payments to Sterling Area countries are in principle unrestricted. There is a standard ex- change allocation for tourist travel outside the Sterling Area of the equivalent of <£M 250 a person a year plus on application <£M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allowance of <£M 250 or £M 20 a day (for up to 30 days a t r ip ), whichever is the larger; and an al- lowance for educational expenses outside the Sterling Area of <£M 2,000 a person for an academic year.3 Applications for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Treasury if the latter is satisfied that there is no illicit capital outflow involved. Profits, dividends, and interest for approved foreign invest- ments may, with Treasury permission, be transferred after payment of any charges and taxes due. Life insur- 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study pur- poses, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or intend to continue so living for at least three years. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA ance may not be contracted with insurers resident in non-Sterling Area countries. Maintenance remittances to beneficiaries outside the Sterling Area are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship; authorized banks may also approve moder- ate remittances to Sterling Area countries for family living expenses. Travelers may export Malta and ster- ling banknotes up to an aggregate of <£M 25 for each person. Exports of other currencies may be made by resident travelers up to <£ M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to <£M 100 for each per- son or up to the amount brought in, whichever is higher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war material are prohibited and, with the exception of 56 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are subject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports received in non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. There are no surrender requirements for proceeds received in Sterling Area currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area curren- cies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; re- ceipts in Sterling Area currencies need not be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Malta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts from other Sterling Area countries. Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank, and payments of a capital nature in those currencies as well as certain payments in Sterling Area currencies require prior approval. Applications for di- rect investment outside the Sterling Area by residents of Malta and for direct investment in Malta by nonres- idents of the Sterling Area are considered on their mer- its. The purchase of real estate in Malta by non-Ster- ling Area residents through a resident procurator requires exchange control approval but is normally not restricted. Purchases of all securities issued outside Malta require prior permission from the authorities, and those of non-Sterling Area securities must be financed with investment currency acquired in the Lon- don market. However, permission is not normally granted for the acquisition of securities or the placing of funds outside Malta. Purchases of personal real es- tate situated outside the Sterling Area must also be financed with investment currency and require prior ex- change control approval. Non-Sterling Area nationals who repatriate or take 284 up residence outside the Sterling Area and Sterling Area nationals who repatriate to a territory of the Ster- ling Area, normally are allowed to transfer all their sterling assets to their country; in certain circumstances, however, restrictions may be placed on sterling assets acquired, other than by way of income or capital appreciation, while the person has been resident in Malta. Maltese who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area may transfer abroad up to «£M 5,000 for each fam i ly; any excess amount is normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Treasury. Gold Residents other than authorized banks and registered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than coins or jewelry, at home or abroad. Residents may freely purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins minted in or before 1837, but Treasury permis- sion is required for the purchase, sale, or continued holding (except by those who held not more than four post-1837 coins on December 23, 1966) of any gold coins minted after 1837. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold coins for numismatic purposes from Sterling Area countries and virtually any other country. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of fili- gree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized banks are permitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users, within an annual quota that is divided among industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities; such permission is not normally granted, and the export of gold bullion is prohibited. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1970 January 31. Advance payments for imports originat- ing outside the Sterling Area required approval by the Treasury. February 14. The basic exchange allowance for edu- cational expenses outside the Sterling Area was raised to <£ M 2,000 a person an academic year. April 29. The Exchange Control (Restriction of Transactions) Order, 1970 (Legal Notice No. 39) imposed temporary control on capital movements to other countries of the Sterling Area. No person could, without the permission of the Accountant-General, carry out any transaction which involved the exchange of, or an obligation to exchange, Malta currency against the currency of another Sterling Area territory. Exempt from such permission were: (a) payments due ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in connection with foreign trade, other current busi- ness, including services, and normal short-term banking and credit facilities; (b) payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments; (c) payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or for depreciation of direct investments; and (d) payments of moderate amounts for family living expen- ses. Authorized banks were required to refer to the Treasury any application for payments to the Sterling Area fa l l ing outside these four exemptions or outside the existing limitations on the export of banknotes. April 29. Authorized banks and travel agents were notified that no restriction was being imposed on pay- ments in respect of bona fide travel within the Sterling Area. April 29. Banks were informed that permission would not normally be granted for payments to other Sterling Area territories for the acquisition of securities or for the placing of funds abroad. Securities were defined so as to include treasury bills, certificates of deposit, units in unit trusts, and shares in mutual funds. April 29. The introduction was announced of an interest equalization tax on overseas new investments, which would replace the temporary restrictions on capi- tal transfers to the Sterling Area introduced by the Exchange Control (Restriction of Transactions) Order, 1970. By the end of January 1971, the tax had not yet been introduced. May 8. Banks were informed that, in respect of life insurance policies contracted after April 28, 1970, they could not, without Treasury approval, make payments to Sterling Area countries unless the term of the policy was for a period in excess of five years. May 8. Banks were informed that without Treasury approval payments to Sterling Area countries in respect of contracts for the purchase of units in unit trusts and MALTA shares in mutual funds could only be made where such contracts already existed on April 28, 1970. May 8. Banks were informed that they could approve bona fide cash gifts to residents of Sterling Area countries up to <£ M 250 a year for each donor. June 24. Payments for purchases of shares in compa- nies registered in Malta and quoted on the London Stock Exchange were permitted, provided that the securities were deposited with an authorized bank in Malta and the shareholders would apply to the Treas- ury before disposing of the shares in any way to another person. June 30. Authorized banks could no longer sell non- Sterling Area currency spot to residents of the Sterling Area to be held in cover of future requirements on an account under the supervision of an authorized bank. June 30. Where the sale or purchase of goods was involved, authorized banks could, without reference to the Treasury, sell non-Sterling Area currency forward to residents of the Sterling Area, provided that they could authorize the underlying payment, on maturity of the forward contract, under a delegated authority. October 9. The Exchange Control (Deposit of Secur- ities) (Exemption) Order, 1970, which revoked the corresponding Order of 1959, redefined the securities (in addition to those registered in Malta), the certifi- cates of title to which did not have to be deposited with an authorized depository. It also exempted persons whose securities were regularly deposited with an author- ized depository in the United Kingdom from the obli- gation of placing these securities to the order of an authorized depository in Malta. December 5. A ten-year two-stage association agree- ment with the EEC was signed. December 17. Banks were authorized to transfer, without reference to the Treasury, earnings from approved employment in Malta of persons resident in other parts of the Sterling Area. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and com- mercial banks in Mauritania take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency con- cerned, and include a commission. The negotiation in Mauritania of the currencies of Israel, Portugal, and South Afr ica is prohibited. Mauritania's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the A fa fs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member coun- tries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except Mauritania itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign coun- tries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries. Most of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to col- lect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 286 export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Depart- ment in the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import certificates for liberalized commodities and export certificates. The National Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles. Prescription of Currency Mauritania is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries — provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Israel, Portu- gal, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Nouakchott by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israel, Portuguese, and South African origin and /or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. With these exceptions, imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France are free of license and quantitative restrictions. Most imports from other countries are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. There are three liberalization lists, applicable respectively to the former OEEC area, to the United States and Canada, and to all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. Only holders of importer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exporter cards are permitted to engage in import trans- actions. SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Gu inea cloth. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have already been imported. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the BCEAO. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the I&CEAO and, for certain specified payments and subject to conditions laid down in circulars, to author- ized intermediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or doe§ not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a person a trip (CFAF 37,500 for children under ten) which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Mauri- tania must be surrendered. For business travel, an exceptional additional allocation may be granted only with special authorization by the Minister of Finance. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mauritania is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Res- ident and nonresident travelers going to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes if they had not de- MAURITANIA clared these upon en t ry, or any amount they had de- clared; 2 and any amount of travelers checks and letters of credit issued in the ir name in a foreign country. They may also take out, subject to the production of documentary evidence, any amount in foreign means of payment that they acquired in Mau r i tan ia to the debit of a Foreign Account in Francs or by conversion of other fore ign means of payment, and any amount of foreign banknotes declared upon en t ry or acquired in exchange for other means of payment in Mauritania. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require an export certificate. Export pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be sur- rendered; before the surrender period expires, how- ever, the exporter may use this foreign exchange, under the supervision of an authorized bank, in settlement of import payments and related expenses that have fa l len due. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of serv- ices and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area, but residents must within eight days of re-entry surrender any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Transfers of capital between Maur i tan ia and Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. 2 Adjusted for any documented exchange for CFA francs, and for any amounts purchased in Mauritania by debit to a nonresident account in francs or in foreign currency. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauri- tania, and over the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Mauritania and the soliciting of funds in Mauritania, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All investment abroad by residents of Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania 3 and Mauri- tanian direct investments abroad,4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liq- uidation of investments, whether these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauri- tania, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted op a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Mauritania requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Mauritanian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Mauritania has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) 3 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauri- tania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in Mauritania. 288 loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transac- tions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Mauritania, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The Investment Code (Law No. 61.122) enacted on June 26, 1961 and amended by Law No. 67.168 on July 17, 1967 provides for two kinds of preferential treat- ment for the establishment of specified companies in Mauritania: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal sta- bility regime. Under the first regime, the proposed invest- ment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made within a period of up to 2 years, and must provide permanent employment for at least 20 Mauritanian nationals. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a specified number of years from duties on the import of certain materials as well as from taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, cer- tain companies considered to be of exceptional impor- tance to the development of the country and making a minimum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treas- ury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 January 5. Circular No. 1 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 69-383 of November 21, 1969. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meeting the follow- ing conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 50 million; ( d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. (3) Loans taken up abroad by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Mauri- tania, or taken up by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publication of Decree No. 69-383 also requires such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sions of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. March 5. Order No. 104 further modified Order No. 736 of December 24, 1968. Resident travelers were redefined to include residents of France and the other Operations Account countries. Returning residents had eight days within which to surrender all foreign cur- rency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers were permitted to export any amount of foreign means of payment other than banknotes, provided that they were issued in Mauritania in their names and that they had been acquired, through an authorized bank, to the debit of a Foreign Account in Francs or in exchange for other means of payment denominated in foreign cur- rency. Furthermore, nonresident travelers could under certain circumstances take out more than CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes. April 23. Decree No. 70-102 introduced exporter cards. June 22. Order No. 300 increased the exchange allo- cation for tourist travel from the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year to CFAF 75,000 a person a year (CFAF 37,500 for children under ten). The entire allocation could henceforth be taken up in foreign banknotes. importer- MAURITANIA July 6. Circular No. 725 permitted exporters to use in payment of their own commercial debts abroad ( f rom import payments and related expenses), pro- vided that these had fallen due, foreign currency result- ing f rom their commercial claims and repatriated in accordance w i th the regulations but for which the pre- scribed surrender period had not yet expired. These transactions were referred to as marches d'application. August 27. Order No. 466, which amended Article 5 of Order No. 735 of December 24, 1968, permitted nonresident accounts of authorized banks' foreign cor- respondents to be credited, under conditions to be spec- ified by circular, with banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. August 27. Circular No. 1012, which amended Cir- cular No. 6 of April 15, 1969, permitted Foreign Accounts in Francs held with authorized banks by their foreign correspondents to be credited with BCEAO banknotes addressed direct by these correspondents, by mail or air, to the Nouakchott agency of the BCEAO. August 27. Circular No. 1013 revoked Circular No. 7 of April 21, 1969 concerning the sale of camels de change (personal travel exchange booklets) by author- ized banks. August 31. By virtue of Order No. 450 of August 20, the presentation of an importer-exporter card was required for all imports and exports, irrespective of their origin or destination. October 8. Order No. 563 provided that the exchange allocation for nonbusiness travel of the equiv- alent of CFAF 75,000 a person a year could hence- forth be taken up for two trips a year. Applicants were required to submit an attestation. The amount in BCEAO banknotes and banknotes issued by the Bank of France or any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury that could be taken out by resident and nonresident travelers leaving for foreign countries was increased from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000. Residents were prohib- ited from using credit cards in foreign countries. October 12. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to Banks. The banks' reporting requirements in respect of their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1,3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Mauritian Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate is Re 1 = £ 0 Is. 6d., corresponding to Re 1 = US$0.18. The currency issuing authority is the Bank of Mauri- tius. Its rates for sterling are Rs 13.31% buying, and Rs 13.36% selling, per £1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mauritius, and in other foreign currencies * at rates based on London market rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on December 31, 1970 were Rs 13.25 buying and Rs 13.40 selling per £1, and those for the U. S. dollar were Rs 5.53 buying and Rs5.61 selling. A different effective rate results from the application of a stamp duty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital transfers other than transfers of banking funds and to payments for gold coin and gold bullion. Certain capital transfers to non-Sterling Area countries are channeled through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn delegated to the commer- cial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Mauritius is a member of the Sterling Area but settle- ments with Sterling Area countries are subject to exchange control. Payments to residents of other Ster- ling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mauritius, in ster- ling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- 1The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 290 desian currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in other countries of the Sterling Area, may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for (1) payments from residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Maur- itius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authori- ties in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized pay- ments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appro- priate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any pay- ments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by per- sons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifi- cally authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required regard- less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual trad- ers when imported from countries of the Sterling Area, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries with it exchange control authority to make the corre- sponding import payments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other pur- poses such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist pur- poses is the equivalent of £250 a person a year for travel to any country in the world except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel purposes is the equiv- alent of £250 a trip or £20 a day up to a maximum of £1,000 a trip for travel to countries of the Sterling Area, or up to a total of £750 a trip for travel to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius when exceeding the equivalent of £250 a person a trip. There are also established limits for pay- ments and transfers to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of family sup- port, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royal- ties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or par- tially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, pre- cious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports MAURITIUS valued at more than Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Rs 50 require a license from the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 6 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of for- eign currency notes and coins that may be imported but not more than Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp duty (a duty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent th e r eon ); they may, subject to permission, which is free ly granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to non-Sterling Area countries on payment of the stamp duty, provided normally that the transfer is made through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp duty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Ster- ling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, must nor- mally be made through the investment currency market. Transfers of capital after payment of stamp duty by residents of non-Sterling Area countries need not be channeled through this market. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, prof- its, and interest on capital. Permission for the repatria- tion of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capi- tal brought in on or after that date. Proceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Rs 67,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is avail- able upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite priod to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold only in the form of numismatic coins or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Changes during 1970 January 1. A new customs tariff based on the Brus- sels nomenclature went into effect. The previous cus- toms surcharge of 5 per cent of the applicable import duty was incorporated in the rates of the new tariff. January 19. A fiscal duty of Rs 10 per 100 kilograms was introduced on imports of rice. Rice imported by or on behalf of the Government was exempt. July 1. The export tax on sugar was raised from 5 per cent to 6 per cent and the export tax on molasses from Rs 1.20 a 1,000 kilograms to 5 per cent ad valo- rem. September 2. It was announced that Mauritius had become a full contracting party to the GATT. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso or Mex$ 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$ 12.49 buying, and Mex$ 12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with pay- ments agreements with Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Yugoslavia, payments for transactions with those coun- tries handled through the Mexican banking system are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special ac- counts denominated in U.S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colon*- bia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. Payments to Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos or Central American currencies through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All imports must be ac- companied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For a considerable number of items, import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such li- censes may be subject to quantitative restriction, but most of the items concerned do not require an import license when they originate in LAFTA countries. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (per- misos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited importation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possi- ble. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the aid of committees composed of importers, producers, and consumers. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an overall annual limit. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required (unassembled automo- biles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and televi- sion sets, and whiskey, wines, and other liquors) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and ll/2 per cent of the value of the import transaction, the proceeds of which are allocated to a fund handled by the National Foreign Trade Bank for the promotion of exports. Licenses for the imports mentioned are issued only to importers who guarantee they will export commodities for an equal amount (in- tercambio compensado). Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Commit- tee of Public Sector Imports; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is avail- able, a price differential of 15 per cent being consid- ered acceptable. Many nonessential imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Tax re- mission is granted on exports of cotton and certain manufactured products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. New foreign investment, other than by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance compa- nies and investment funds is prohibited. Credit gi anted by Mexican banks to subsidiaries in Mexico of foreign companies is subject to guidelines drawn up by the Mexican Bankers' Association. The guidelines apply to companies with assets of over Mex$3 million that are more than 15 per cent foreign owned. Borrowing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to ap- proval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to licens- ing by the Bank of Mexico. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold to any buyer other than the Bank of Mexico. The Bank, how- ever, does not buy or sell gold in transactions with pri- vate individuals or firms. Producers of gold undertak- ing not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations plus normal operating costs are eligible for a subsidy corresponding to the full 15 per cent tax when selling newly mined gold in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by the Bank of Mexico. Imports of gold are permitted when licensed by the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1970 During the year, additional commodities were made subject to import licensing. January 1. Automobile manufacturers were required to export components made in Mexico if they wished to import any parts. For 1970, the minimum compen- sation ratio would be 5 per cent; it was to be increased gradually to 100 per cent by 1976. June 9. A Presidential Decree directed the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to restrict new foreign bor- rowing by the public sector to funds for (1) the import of equipment for self-liquidating projects generating enough foreign exchange to service the debt concerned or (2) the refinancing of existing borrowings on more favorable terms. The restrictions also applied to state- owned banking institutions. The Minister could, how- ever, authorize such foreign borrowing by banks as might be required for international financial transac- tions approved by the Bank of Mexico. June 9. The approval of the Minister of Finance and Public Credit was required for any acquisition by for- eign firms or individuals of 25 per cent or more of the shares of commercial banks. July 2. New directives were announced for foreign ownership of Mexican industries. Foreign ownership in the steel, cement, glass, fertilizer, cellulose, and alumi- num industries could not exceed 49 per cent of capital stock. Existing companies were exempt but when ex- panding tjieir operations had to comply with the new regulations. August 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Ecua- dor came into operation. October 10. The import of spare parts for machinery valued at US$520 or less was simplified. December 31. The Banking Law was amended and the Minister of Finance and Public Credit was em- powered to establish rules limiting credit that may be extended by Mexican financial institutions to companies which are directly or indirectly controlled by foreign- ers, as well as the purchases of securities issued by such companies that financial institutions may under- take. December 31. A decree was published establishing the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute. Among its var- ious duties the Institute took charge of all those pre- viously performed by the Committee of Public Sector Imports as well as the compensation system previously carried out by the National Foreign Trade Bank. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham or DH 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French franc is fixed at DH 1 = F 1.09755; all transactions in French francs except those in French banknotes take place at that rate, plus or minus a commission. The Bank of Moroc- co's buying and selling rates for the "convertible cur- rencies" it negotiates x and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1970 were DH 5.0212 buying, and DH 5.0363 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under bilateral pay- ments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign cur- rency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (offse t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private custom- ers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not per- mitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own pur- chases and sales of foreign currency mostly in the Paris exchange market but sometimes in other markets. The Bank of Morocco establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA francs, Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible cur- rencies"; the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replen- ish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a f ree trade zone and is exempt f rom taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco's regulations still make a distinction between the French Franc Area and the so-called area of convertibility, but Morocco does apply exchange controls also to transactions with the former.2 For pre- scription of currency purposes, countries are classified as fo l lows: ( 1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreemen ts ;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ); certain settlements with Algeria, however, are made through special accounts in dirhams and dinars at the two central banks. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreements accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convert- ible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco' (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "con- vertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Settlements between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Egypt; the accounts are denominated in U. S. dollars. Administration of Control Nonresident Accounts Exchange control is administered by the Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of cer- tain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer him- self; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. The various types of nonresident accounts are as fol- lows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroc- can currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports f rom those countries. They may be freely cred- 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 3 Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Spain, and U. S. S. R. Pay- ments between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are also set- tled through special accounts. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO ited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports of related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negotiated by it, includ- ing banknotes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3) except Spain; they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Bank of Spain (Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute) and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement with Spain. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited without prior approval for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan com- panies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions at the time of issue to long- term or short-term securities with a fixed yield issued by a public Moroccan entity; for custody charges and com- missions on securities; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Capital Accounts may also be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent ten-year government bonds; interest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of par- ticipation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; 296 purchases of businesses on business buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses during the holder's stay in Morocco; and gifts to social, cultural, or reli- gious institutions. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 7. A Foreign Account in Convertible Dirhams is held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria. Specified transactions between the two countries are settled through this account. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberal- ized. Goods in List B are restricted, in many cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a number of List B items, there are special subquotas for the EEC countries as a group. In principle, the impor- tation of goods in List C is not permitted.4 To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commit- ment (engagement a"importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import license (autorisation d'importation or cer- tificat d'importation) must be obtained. For certain goods in List B, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods from any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de contingentement) is required.6 For all imports the import title—import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d iffer or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Import certificates must be domiciled w i th in a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commit- ments must be domiciled at the time of their subscrip- tion. Special procedures are applicable to imports of French origin that are financed by French aid and to certain U.S. aid imports. 4 On January 1, 1971, fur ther import liberalization took place. 5 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 6 Protective quotas were abolished early in 1971. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the neces- sary justification; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The author- ized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction cov- ered by the relevant import or export documents. Earn- ings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be distributed; the transfer of other dividends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Undistributed transferable profits remain trans- ferable. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their monthly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 12,000 a year.7 An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to res- idents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodical transfers abroad. Resi- dents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a cor- responding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. Foreign employees of the Moroccan Government and of public agencies or insti- tutions, teachers of foreign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education, and experts holding contracts within the framework of the technical cooper- ation agreements with France may obtain a comple- mentary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. For business travel by persons other than exporters a standard allowance of DH 150 a day is granted; exporters may be granted up MOROCCO to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a l im it of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study in countries of the French Franc Area and in Spain, a monthly allocation of for- eign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco; the corresponding allocation for the United States is DH 750 a month, and that for other countries DH 600 a month. For family maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not per- mitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial con- tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must sur- render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which may be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be sur- rendered within 15 days of re-entry. Capital 7 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, monthly trans- fers which exceed by more than DH 150 the amount transferred in June 1970 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as compa- nies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to repatriates up to DH 35,000 a family, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses sim- ilar to those granted to domestic investments, in accord- ance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; all new investments that have been approved by, and registered with, the Exchange Office are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the invest- ment has been financed either with convertible curren- cies or in conformity with the rules governing settle- ments with other countries. The guarantee of repatria- tion is freely transferable either between all non- residents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) or between nonresidents resi- dent in the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currencies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. All other transactions in securities involving non- resident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, which does not, how- ever, deal in gold bars or ingots. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the War- ranty Office in the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and other users. Gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import duty and import taxes. 298 Changes during 1970 During the year, further import liberalization took place by shifts of individual commodities from List B to List A as well as shifts from List C to List B. Such action occurred, inter alia, on January 1, February 20, March 9, June 22, and November 9. January 1. A standard foreign exchange allowance of DH 150 a person a day was introduced for business travel by persons other than exporters. Previously, applications were considered on their merits but an allowance of DH 50 a person a day was usually granted. January 1. The proportion of settlements with Cuba that was to be effected in convertible currencies was increased from 25 per cent to 30 per cent. January 2. The foreign exchange allocation for non- business travel abroad was increased from DH 25 a person a trip (which could be taken up twice a year) to DH 100 a person a year for those residents not making regular transfers abroad. The existing allocation was abolished for residents making transfers regularly. January 8. Transfers by foreign nationals engaged in the medical profession ceased to be limited to the equivalent of DH 1,000 a person a month and were henceforth determined on the basis of their net earn- ings instead of gross earnings, as previously. January 19. Royal Decree No. 1-69-326 extended the application of Morocco's exchange and trade con- trols to Ifni. January 28. The guarantee of retransfer of foreign capital invested in Morocco, previously subject to indi- vidual authorization for investments not examined and approved by the Investment Committee, was made automatic for all new foreign investments financed by the sale of foreign exchange and approved by and regis- tered with the Exchange Office. March 4. The advance deposit requirement of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value, applicable since 1961 to many private sector imports from nonpayments agreement countries, was withdrawn. October 12. Two financial agreements were signed with Algeria, one between the Treasuries and the other between the central banks. The latter provided that cer- tain settlements between the two countries would hence- forth be channeled through nonresident accounts main- tained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Algeria and denominated in convertible Moroccan dirhams and convertible Algerian dinars, respectively. Both agreements came into force on November 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts NEPAL The par va lue is 0.087770 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee or NRs 10.1250 = US$1. Most of Nepal's fore ign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. The par value gives a relationship of 135 Nepalese rupees equals 100 Indian rupees. The buying and selling rates of the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) for the Indian rupee are NRs 135 and NRs 135.15 per 100 Indian rupees, and those for the U. S. dollar are NRs 10.10 and NRs 10.20 per US$1. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of repre- sentatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank and the Minis- tries of Finance, Foreign Affa irs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions with the clearing countries. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except payments for certain specified invisibles that require authorization from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Vanijya Bank. W i th in Nepal there are 24 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Cer- tain import and export transactions, mainly with pay- ments agreement countries, are conducted through a state trad ing agency, the National Trading Ltd. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no pay- ments agreement is in force, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the converti- ble currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, main- land China, North Korea, Pakistan, and Poland; pay- ments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks, the balances of which may be freely transferred abroad. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the coun- try, subject to pr ior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in India (other than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and most tobacco products) or the Tibet region require import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, mar- garine, animal fat, beef, arms and ammunition, explo- sives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods could be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise duty in India benefited from reimbursement of tax by the Government of India to the Government of India or the Government of Nepal. The Treaty expired late in 1970. With the exception noted below, applications to the M in is t ry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; an application must, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equiv- alent of US$1,000 at a time; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year for board and lodging, while pay- 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL ments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Pay- ments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; how- ever, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally permitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, gasoline, cement, iron bars, and packaged foodstuffs are prohib- ited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' exchange entitlement corresponding to a specified pro- portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. Although entitlements formally are nontransfer- able, transfers do take place indirectly through the advance sale of goods to be imported under this system. Entitlements granted to industries exporting their own products may be used only for raw materials, spare parts, and machinery, all for their own produc- tion, and for salaries payable in foreign exchange. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade, i.e., those selling to countries with which Nepal maintains payments agreements, are granted entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of their export earnings for imports of their choice from the partner country concerned; the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the partner country concerned. When exports are made to convertible currency coun- tries, exchange entitlements are granted as follows. Industries exporting raw ju te are granted entitlements corresponding to 50 per cent of export proceeds, and traders 30 per cent. The ratios of exchange entitlements with respect to the exports of other goods, which are the same for industries and traders, are 90 per cent for jute cuttings, caddies, synthetic textiles, ready-made garments of synthetic textiles, stainless steel utensils, and strawboard (60 per cent for exports of synthetic 300 textiles, ready-made garments of synthetic textiles, and stainless steel utensils in excess of prescribed ceilings), 80 per cent for rice, 70 per cent for sackings, pulses, timber, and linseed, 40 per cent for musk, and 60 per cent for hessians and for all goods not mentioned. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisi- bles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capital- ized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports for industrial and handi- craft use from India, at Indian gold prices, are free. No import licenses for gold are issued under the exporters' exchange entitlement scheme. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 5.85 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to sales tax of 9 per cent. Changes during 1970 February 13. The exporters' exchange entitlement ratio for exports of rice was raised from 70 per cent to 80 per cent. April 3. The exporters' exchange entitlement ratio for exports of synthetic textiles was increased from 60 per cent to 90 per cent. July 6. The sales tax on gold and other commodities subject to the 7 per cent rate was raised to 9 per cent. July 16. The issuance of exporters' exchange entitle- ments was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Nepal Rastra Bank. August 6. A new agreement with the U. S. S. R. was signed which provided that henceforth payments were to be made in convertible currencies. The existing bilat- eral payments agreement with the U. S. S. R. was ter- minated with immediate effect. November 1. The Trade and Transit Treaty with India expired. December 11. A bilateral payments agreement with North Korea was signed and came into force immedi- ately. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder or f. 3.62 = US$1. The official limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits that result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies1 and inconvertible curren- cies, both spot and forward, against convertible cur- rencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks; residents other than banks are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are permitted to hold such accounts (normally demand deposits only) in their own names with banks abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control, although they are generally permitted freely. Vis-a-vis any third coun- tries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General * On May 9, 1971 the Netherlands authorities announced their deci- sion that in present conditions they would not ensure that rates for exchange transactions involving the Netherlands guilder would be maintained, within their territory, within the margins hitherto observed. With effect from May 10, the Netherlands Bank revoked until further notice its buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 302 for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the CDIU.2 All commercial banks of any importance are author- ized to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Nether- lands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except the U. S. S. R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible currencies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, pro- vided that the amounts received are deposited with the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. Most transac- tions with the U. S. S. R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of the Foreign Trade Bank of the U. S. S. R. with the Netherlands Bank; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Netherlands or abroad and is credited to a foreign cur- rency account in the name of the beneficiary with an authorized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows: 3 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Convertible Guilder 2 Merchanting transactions involving Rhodesia are prohibited. Most other transactions are freely permitted by virtue of general licenses granted to registered transit traders. The only merchanting transac- tions still subject to a specific license are (a) purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the EEC, of scrap, and (b) all sales to the U. S. S. R. when payable in bilateral Netherlands guilders. 3 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Accounts, w i th permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible currencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permit- ted transactions, including purchases of foreign curren- cies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. The only account of this type is that of the Foreign Trade Bank of the U. S. S. R. with the Netherlands Bank. It is used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the U. S. S. R. It may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account, and with pro- ceeds from the sale in the Netherlands of gold or con- vertible currencies. It may be debited for permitted payments to residents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import li- censes are required for many textiles unless they are imported from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and do not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to these, import li- censes are required only for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of products mainly from the agricultural sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European coun- tries are formally liberalized, although still subject to license. Some 20 commodities are subject to quantita- tive restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities.1 Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amoun t, and the entire amount may be taken, if 4 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. NETHERLANDS the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resi- dent traveling abroad may in addition have any further amounts remitted to him through bank ing channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, divi- dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate non- resident account. The export of Netherlands banknotes by resident travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Ne ther lands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by draw- ing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. The export of Netherlands silver coins by travelers is limited to f. 25 a person a trip; this limit is not applica- ble to 10-guilder coins. Exports and Export Proceeds V ir tua l ly all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; all other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a number of commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural prod- ucts. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities (see footnote 4 ). The surren- der of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any sur- render that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account export proceeds may be credited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected through an authorized bank but need not be surren- dered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds from invisibles may be credited. For incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 derived from cur- rent invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an author- ized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlim- ited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign bank- notes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign-owned capital within the Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transac- tion. Borrowing and lending abroad by bank and non- bank residents (with the exception of specified banking operations and of credit in respect of imports or exports of commodities) are restricted for reasons of capital market policy and, as far as borrowing is con- cerned, either to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities or for reasons of monetary policy. Borrowing from nonresident banks by private industry and other nonbank residents is not normally permitted, and loans from other sources (except suppliers' credits) are subject to individual approval. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents from nonresidents, provided that a resident in any cal- endar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 from the same nonresident. A similar license has been issued for lending to nonresidents. Nonbank residents are not normally permitted to purchase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short-term debt instruments. Most capital transactions, whether freely permitted or not, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of non- residents are restricted. Nonresidents' bond issues denominated in guilders are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank within global limits that are estab- lished annually in accordance with the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of pay- ments. Authorized banks may on request be licensed to take part in syndicates for the issue of Euro-guilder notes, which may be acquired by nonresidents only. Authorized banks are not permitted to maintain net short-term external liabilities. They may freely lend to nonresident banks, for any period, but their borrowing from such banks is restricted. Their net foreign liabili- ties must not exceed f. 5 million for each bank; the cal- culation is based on the foreign position in all curren- cies, including guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities. New capital investments in the Netherlands by non- residents are in general permitted; inward direct invest- ment is freely permitted. Local borrowing by nonresi- dent-owned or nonresident-controlled companies for use in the Netherlands also is permitted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in industrial enterprises and other busi- 304 nesses established in the Netherlands is freely permit- ted. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on application, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign securities take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unre- stricted; the regulations concerning securities are not applicable to treasury bills. The foreign currency pro- ceeds from securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by non- residents are transferable in any currency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonres- idents may have their securities, Netherlands or for- eign, exported to them (but see footnote 3 ). Domestic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application. Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.5 Emigrants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire the status of nonresi- dents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon departure have remit- ted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being dis- tributed in the Netherlands. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transactions only with monetary authorities and international finan- cial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and other residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the for- eign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent (except those of Belgium, Denmark, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States, which are exempt); the value-added tax on medallions and com- memorative coins that are not legal tender is 14 per cent;6 sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing 5 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 6 With effect from January 1, 1971, when the general rate of value- added tax was increased from 12 per cent to 14 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require im- port licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1970 During the year, the Netherlands Bank permitted a number of placings of guilder notes by both resident and nonresident companies; these Euro-guilder issues generally were limited to a five-year maturity and were required to be sold to nonresidents (other than citizens or residents of the United States); their interest terms had to be comparable to those available to resident borrowers in the domestic capital market, and the pro- ceeds normally could not be spent in the Netherlands. On various occasions in 1970, additional imports were liberalized bilaterally when originating in specified East- ern European countries. January 1. All remaining import and export licensing requirements for industrial products were abolished in trade with Belgium and Luxembourg. (Some further simplification of formalities in intra-Benelux trade took place on February 1, 1971.) January 21. The maximum interest subsidy for ship- building orders was raised from 2 per cent to 3% per cent. From August 1, the maximum rate was reduced to 3^4 per cent, and from January 1, 1971 to 1% per cent. February 16. The first framework agreement on export credit was signed. The agreement with Iran cov- ered Netherlands deliveries up to f. 35 million. March 18. The ceiling on the net foreign asset posi- NETHERLANDS tion of the authorized banks was lowered from 125 per cent to 100 per cent of the base level (either the level at the end of May 1969 or the average of the end- March and end-April positions in 1969). April 16. General License No. SL55 permitted resi- dents freely to (1) acquire and dispose of silver 10- guilder coins, in relations with residents or nonresidents, and (2) import and export such coins. April 16. The 1945 decree prohibiting the transfer of coins of silver, nickel, or bronze other than at their nominal value was revoked. April 22. The ceiling on the net foreign asset posi- tion of the authorized banks was suspended. July 7. The three Benelux countries agreed on a common policy with respect to the application of quan- titative restrictions on imports from Eastern Europe. November 30. The Netherlands ratified the agree- ment signed on April 29, 1969 with Belgium and Lux- embourg concerning the unification of the Benelux customs territory. The agreement came into force on February 1, 1971. December 8. A bill was introduced to revise the powers of supervision over the credit system that were exercised by the Netherlands Bank. Among other changes, the central bank's authority to impose limits on the net external position of authorized banks would be derived from the new law, rather than, as pre- viously, from the Foreign Exchange Decree, 1945. Another bill was introduced stipulating that all loans in excess of f. 250,000 made by institutional investors must be reported to the Netherlands Bank. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder or Ant. f. 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U. S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The official selling rates for other currencies (Netherlands guilders, Surinam guild- ers, and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of rates for the U. S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at fixed rates, those for the U. S. dollar being Ant. f. 1.8725 buying, and Ant. f. 1.8775 selling. The Bank does not normally deal with the public. Commercial banks require the approval of the Foreign Exchange Control Board to invest or hold foreign currency balances;1 after 1968 such approval has not normally been granted except insofar as the transactions relate to the banks' activities as international financial intermediaries. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board acting under the supervision of the Managing Director of the central bank. The commercial banks are permitted by the Board to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions without prior approval. The Foreign Exchange Control Board may grant nonresidents an exemption from the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or monies concerned were acquired from nonresidents and are not being held in favor of or on behalf of, or for the account of, third parties who are residents; the foreign exchange may then be disposed of freely until further notice or until revocation by the Board. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Nonresident Accounts Foreign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status are not permitted to hold nonresident accounts XA 11 currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are considered foreign currencies. 306 in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Other nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders or in any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to quantitative restrictions, with the exception of certain items, such as narcotics and explosives, whose importation is subject to license for public policy reasons. Otherwise, licenses are required only for imports of passenger automobiles valued at over US$5,000. These licenses must be obtained from the Foreign Exchange Control Board; as a rule, they are valid for three months, although in some cases they may be extended for a further three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with nonresident status normally finance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for family mainten- ance, medical care, education, and so forth, may be made freely through the authorized banks. For pay- ments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Without a license, which is usually granted, residents may not take out more than Ant. f. 200 a person in Netherlands banknotes or other foreign banknotes. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Com- pany. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt. Travelers may bring with them checks, travel- ers checks, or banknotes in foreign currency in unlim- ited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Com- pany. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many com- modities as well as tax facilities. New industrial compa- nies pr imar i ly engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the Foreign Exchange Control Board, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its trans- actions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering their foreign assets. Such exemption may also be granted to investment compa- nies, patent holding companies, shipping companies, and insurance companies. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts between residents and foreign insurance compa- nies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (since 1969, such contracts have been permitted up to US$25,000 a person a year). Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) requires a license. Investments by residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds, investment in these not being permitted) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (since 1969, these invest- NETHERLANDS ANTILLES ments have been permitted up to US$3,000 a person a quarter for small investors and up to US$10,000 a quar- ter each for others). In considering applications by such residents as pension funds and other institutional inves- tors, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment; the Board may exert moral suasion, however, to discourage exces- sive outflows of resident-owned capital. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with nonresident status) for relending to nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Ne ther lands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 November 1. Preferential customs duties were intro- duced for imports from member countries of the EEC; the preferences were limited to specified commodities. November 1. Import duties were henceforth levied on the c.i.f. value rather than the f.o.b. value of the goods. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar or $NZ 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic t rans fe rs ): $NZ 213.67 buying, and $NZ 214.92 selling, per <£ stg. 100. Except for the Australian dollar, the Fiji dollar, and the Western Samoa tala, the rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buy ing and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U. S. dollar on December 31, 1970 was US$1.1222 buying, and US$1.1100 selling, per $NZ1. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts in U. S. and Canadian dollars for up to six months to cover trade transactions. These forward transactions are at rates of exchange based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. Forward exchange contracts written in sterling are arranged directly between the trading bank's customer and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. These contracts are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted with a loading of 40 cents per <£ stg. 100 a month on con- tracts covering imports and 20 cents per <£ stg. 100 a mon th on export contracts. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank. Contracts in other currencies against sterling may be covered through the London foreign exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trad ing banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Bank also is in charge of the controls over foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Import and export licens- ing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Industries and Commerce. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area *• and has prescription of currency requirements generally similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area cur- 1 For some purposes, including transactions in securities, the Ster- ling Area, as defined in New Zealand's exchange control regulations, does not include New Zealand itself. Foreign currencies are defined as currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area. 308 rency except New Zealand dollars; however, the pro- ceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand currency) that is freely exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in a currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for ster- ling in an External Account, or in New Zealand cur- rency f rom an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settle- ment of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other coun- tries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries in the same currency areas. Banks in other parts of the Ster- ling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zea- land are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about two thirds of all pri- vate impor ts are exempt f rom licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1970- June 30, 1971, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te, many textiles, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt f rom licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by ref- erence to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous - Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment that came into force on Janua ry 1, 1966. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is pro- vided, while applications for further licenses are consid- ered individually. Category "D" includes items of a type also produced in New Zealand, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addi- tion, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued (to the extent of 125 per cent of 1969/70 licenses for the same goods on a value basis, and at 100 per cent where they are issued for a specific quantity of goods) for "D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. "Administrative basic licenses" are issued automatically, to ensure continuity of importa- tion for certain regularly required goods that corre- spond to only part of an item code. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the appli- cant's discretion. Imports from Rhodesia and North Viet-Nam, however, are prohibited. A degree of flexibil- ity in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes (for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a com- posite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 (which date has been brought forward on several occasions) are permit- ted to import under "no-remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in "D" categories. Complete motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. Applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" are required to produce evidence that an amount in qua l ify ing funds equal to 100 per cent 3 of the qualifying funds needed for the license has been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. Under an extension of this arrangement, 50 per cent of overseas funds certified by the Reserve Bank as eligible or securities held overseas prior to June 16, 1966 by private individuals and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commercial imports of completely knocked-down motorcars and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condi- tion that the remaining 50 per cent of qualifying funds (i.e., the equivalent of 100 per cent of the amount of the license applied fo r) be repatriated through the banking system. The Reserve Bank is responsible for 3 However, as a special measure to ease the labor position in the assembly industry, the repatriation requirement for imports of com- pletely built-up cars has been waived up to and including Febru- ary 25, 1972. NEW ZEALAND issuing certificates of eligibility in respect of approved f u n ds under these schemes, but the granting of a certif- icate does not establish an automatic entitlement to a private or commercial "no-remittance license." The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange in an appropriate currency available for pay- ments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of jus t ify ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by jus t ify ing documents. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world except Rhodesia, there are travel allowances of up to $NZ 600 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of $NZ 20 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 15 a day thereafter) and of up to $NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (calcu- lated on the basis of $NZ 14 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 10.50 a day thereafter). An additional amount of up to $NZ 1,200 ($NZ 840 for children) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding three years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. In addition to the allocations above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell non-Sterling Area cur- rencies to New Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held Sterling Area funds; the total amount that may be so provided is the equivalent of $NZ 2,000 a person ($NZ 1,400 a child) in any 12-month period. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, sub- ject to formal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new commitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of mainte- nance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zea- land religious and charitable organizations or individu- als operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Bank up to $NZ 100 a remitter. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to $NZ 20 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 10 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 2. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export proceeds will be surren- dered to a trading bank in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. General export li- censes valid until December 31, 1972 are issued to regu- lar exporters. Payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rhodesia and North Viet-Nam are prohibited. Cer- tain items classed as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and subsequent to the issue of a permit to export. Exports of beef, veal, and mutton to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to restraint. Shipments of mutton to Canada are suspended. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub- mitting evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license to the same value as the imported raw material or components incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain conditions being met, an additional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufac- ture of goods for the home market or for export. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 such assets or their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remu- neration is in a form other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of 4 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or pro- vision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 310 foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is free of control (except for non-Ster- ling Area currencies which, unless sold to a New Zea- land bank, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank), but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and up to $NZ 10 in local currency, of which $NZ4 may be in coins while banknotes may be of $NZ 1 and $NZ 2 denominations only. In all other cases, the importation of New Zealand currency is prohibited except with the consent of the Reserve Bank. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by cor- porate bodies, there is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Reserve Bank; overseas borrowing by such compa- nies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidi- aries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Reserve Bank if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance; the ratio between New Zealand and overseas borrowing that is permitted is generally the same as that between New Zealand and overseas equity hold- ings. Trading banks do, however, have discretion to make overdrafts of up to $NZ 20,000 available to such companies. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand com- pany through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any offer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offerer of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within two weeks of registration the Minister of Finance must notify the offerer as to whether or not the offer is to be considered further. If further consideration is to be given, the Minister of Finance must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equivalent of $NZ 25,000 for each family to their new country of residence. Any remaining assets in New Zealand are transferable in equal annual installments over the next four years, starting one year from depar- ture; in practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 25,000. For repatriates, the maximum initial trans- fer on departure is the equivalent of $NZ 25,000 or the amount originally brought in through the banking system, whichever is larger. Initial remittances up to $NZ 10,OOC) on account of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are approved; any balance is transferable in equal annual installments over the next four years, starting one year after the first remittance. In practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 10,000. All transactions in non-Sterling Area securities, whether with nonresidents or Between residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zea- land resident owning overseas Sterling Area securities is free to sell them tos residents of the overseas Sterling Area (New Zealand being excluded iti this context) for overseas Sterling Area currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas Sterling Area securities, surrendered, or retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of over- seas Sterling Area securities by one New Zealand resi- dent to another^ may be made only in exchange for other overseas Sterling Area securities or for overseas Sterling Area currencies. Overseas Sterling Area securi- ties that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidenc- ing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an authorized depository. Dealings on this basis between New Zealand residents usually take place at a premium over the overseas quotation. These securities may also be sold for overseas Sterling Area currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in overseas Sterling Area securities within three months and the resulting scrip deposited. The authorities do not normally make exchange avail- able to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas Sterling Area securities or other foreign secur- ities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Govern- ment bonds purchased overseas by New Zealand resi- dents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice 1948 it is no NEW ZEALAND longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales w i th in New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. However, newly mined gold must be sold to a licensed gold dealer. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Cus- toms Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restric- tively. Changes during 1970 February 20. A 25 per cent increase, to 75,000 units, in the number of new cars to be licensed in the next import licensing year was announced. This would include a 20 per cent increase in licenses for com- pletely knocked-down cars for local assembly and an allocation of 200 units in total to new importers of built-up cars. Furthermore, additional licenses for 5,300 bu i l t-up cars would be issued immediately. Buyers of overseas-assembled cars under the "no-re- mittance scheme" were temporarily exempted from the requirement to produce evidence that 50 per cent of the qua l i fy ing funds needed for the license had been repatriated through the banking system (the exemption would expire in February 1971). The two-year resale ban on new cars was abolished, but the one-year ban on the resale of no-remittance vehicles remained. February 26. Proposals to exempt from import licens- ing additional goods affecting 44 item codes were officially published. March 5. Plans were announced to export additional motor vehicle components and accessories for assembly in Australia and in return to issue additional import licenses for Australian automobiles. Also, reciprocal trade proposals between the New Zealand and Austra- lian motor industries would in fu tu re be eligible for new concessions (waiver of import duty or acceptance as "local content"). The first major transaction under these arrangements was announced on September 10, 1970; it involved reciprocal imports of fully-assembled automobiles. March 8. It was announced that, with the exception of a small group of "hard core" items, all imported commodities would eventually be freed from quantita- tive control. An interdepartmental committee had been established which would recommend priorities for the progressive and orderly exemption from licensing of goods that would still be controlled after June 30, 1970. It would also identify the "hard core" items. It was also announced that under the next licensing schedule more licenses would become available to new importers, particularly on an "end-user" basis to manu- 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND facturers, as distinct from middlemen importers, and that there would be larger allocations for "token" import licenses. March 25. The 1970/71 Import Licensing Schedule was announced, to become effective on July 1. About two thirds of the value of private imports would be free from import control. Allocations (basic licenses) would generally be at 105 per cent of the 1969/70 level, but most "token" licenses would be at 125 per cent of their former level. There were no new proposals for exemption apart from those published in October 1969 and February 1970. With respect to the goods that had been officially announced for exemption on these two occasions, it was stated that those that had not been the subject of any objections received from local manufacturers seek- ing reference to the Emergency Protection Authority were being exempted from July 1, 1970. However, the release date of the Schedule had not permitted goods in the February list to be shown as exempt in the Sched- ule itself. March 31. The facilities of the Special Export Finance system were extended to cover costs incurred in exporting the services of engineering, architectural, building contracting, and similar firms. These would also have the same access to trading bank accommoda- tion as exporters of goods. May 18. The Minister of Finance announced details of the Government's policy on borrowing in New Zea- land by companies that are wholly or partially owned overseas. As a general rule, these were allowed to raise in New Zealand a proportion of their loan require- ments equal to the proportion of the equity held by New Zealand residents. However, a company seeking long-term credits for a project in which the resulting product is wholly or mainly for export could be allowed to borrow more in the domestic market than was prescribed by this general rule. Moreover, if nonresi- dents owned less than 25 per cent of an incorporated company (as measured by the right to exercise or to control voting power at any general meeting of the company), no approval was required to borrow in the New Zealand market. Finally, special advances were available from trading banks for the direct financing of exports of goods and services. June 25. The limit on the value of British postal orders which may be sold to any one person on any one day was increased from 10 shillings sterling to £2. Furthermore, it was announced that the Reserve Bank would treat liberally requests for approval of other per- sonal overseas remittances where such payments were not subject to precise limitations. June 25. Provision was made for additional import licenses for 5,000 built-up motorcars for the 1970-71 licensing year. July 1. The repatriation requirement under the scheme of "no-remittance import licenses" was raised from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. July 15. All shipments of beef, veal, and mutton to Canada were suspended. Beef and veal shipments were resumed on September 1. October 8. The Meat Producers' Board raised from 15 per cent to 16V2 per cent the proportion of lamb exports to be directed to markets other than the United Kingdom. The levy on shortfalls from the diversifica- tion target remained at 2% cents a pound. October 27. The Government emphasized its inten- tion to continue with its policy of replacing import licensing by tariff protection. November 16. It was announced that from July 1, 1971 goods valued at about $NZ 25 million would become exempt from import licensing. Apart from some items still under discussion, this would be the last list of exempted items to be compiled under the "across-the-board" exemption procedures which had operated for the last decade. December 23. It was announced that the temporary waiver of the repatriation requirement for "no-remit- tance" import licenses would be extented for a further year to February 25, 1972 for imports of built-up cars. At the same time, the repatriation requirement for imports of unassembled cars and other goods was raised f rom 60 per cent to 100 per cent. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba or C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals with the commercial banks at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of % of 1 per cent, which results in an effective selling rate of C$7.0875 per US$1. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts depos- its in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determining any advance deposits required; no advance deposit require- ments are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily converti- ble into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compen- sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cor- dobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador and Guate- mala for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the following amounts a month: 125,000 Guatemalan quetzales and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods and industrial materials; when pay- ment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be sub- mitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceutical and veterinary sup- plies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. If payment is made by letter of credit, a 30 per cent margin deposit is required. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, pro- vided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works comple- mentary to production; such permission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is submitted either that payment or acceptance has been made through a bank (constancia de pago or constancia de aceptacion) or that the Central Bank has approved importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import sur- charge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to ^ 5 per cent 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by- products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes- tically produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur- rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statisti- cal purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur- chased from a bank, with the exception noted in foot- note 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or temporar- ily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign cur- rency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capi- tal transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign invest- ments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or inter- est on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and pri- vate investment companies require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Produ- cers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank does not purchase gold abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authorization. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967. Changes during 1970 March 5. A swap agreement was signed by the cen- tral banks of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua- temala, Honduras, and Venezuela. The swap facility was for the equivalent of US$5 million. April 10. A law was enacted which regulated the operations of private investment companies. Their for- eign borrowing became subject to scrutiny by the Cen- tral Bank. May 28. A general sales tax of 5 per cent was levied on most goods, whether imported or domestically pro- duced. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered for- eign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affairs which also supervises bor- rowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and out- ward investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directo- rate of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and ^he CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Sahara and Nomad Affairs. Import certificates for lib- eralized commodities are made out by the importer himself and, when imports are payable prior to impor- tation, are first approved by the External Finance Divi- sion. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Nigeria, however, are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Portugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, and certain footwear and plas- tic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organi- zation of African and Malagasy States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West African Customs Union. Imports from France and the Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those mentioned may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Morocco, Tunisia, and EEC countries, many goods from other former OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberal- ized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program that is deter- mined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by importers and is estab- lished in mutual agreement within a joint French-Niger Committee. Licenses for printed or unprinted cotton fabrics and for ju te bags, however, are issued in pro- portion to duly substantiated imports from France of a specified quantity of these goods. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Produc- tion du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Niger border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Division if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Divi- sion. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling on tourist trips to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Niger must be surrendered. The transfer of the full salary of a for- eigner working in Niger is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. 316 Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and, provided it is part of their travel allocation, up to the equiv- alent of CFAF 75,000 in foreign banknotes. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, when traveling to a French Franc Area country outside the West African Monetary Union, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Directorate of Economic Affa irs. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the OPVN. Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other coun- tries of domestic products and imported commodities require a license and an exchange commitment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be collected and surrendered within two months of the date on which payment falls due. All export transac- tions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign cur- rency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger; these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Niger, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private per- sons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate building operations abroad; thes^ spe- cial controls do apply to France, Monaco, ancj the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.5 For- eign direct investments in N ige r4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during whicji he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. NIGER The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been author- ized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower. The repayment of any foreign borrow- ing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 (Decree No. 68-24/PRN). Existing bene- fits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been maintained. The Investment Code of July 12, 1961 provided for preferential status that could be granted to new enter- prises in industry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments were deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferen- tial regimes were established: A, B, and C. The most liberal benefits were offered by Regime C, which was applicable to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development plan. This regime was charac- terized by the signing of a founding agreement (con- vention d'etablissement) stipulating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 to 20 years, provided guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B could grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a maximum of 10 years. Firms covered by the 1961 Investment Code must undertake, not to repa- triate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular (de droit commun) treatment. The latter pro- vides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances with respect to indemnities in the event of nationaliza- 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER tion, and concerning nondiscrimination between Nige- rien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions will be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be pf special impor- tance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the approval regime (regime d'agrement) and the agreement regime (regime conventionnel). Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form in Niger. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when car- ried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 January 8. Decree No. 70-57 MF was issued concern- ing certain financial transactions with foreign countries. For purposes of this Decree, foreign countries were defined as all countries other thdh Niger. It revoked' Decree No. 67-161 of November 30, 1967 and its amendments (Decree No. 68-15 of January 17, 1968 and Decree No. 68-74 of June 21, 1968). The prior authorization of the Minister of Finance was required fo r: (1) the issuing, advertising, or sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institutions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms or institutions; (3) any publicity with a view to the placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when relating to loans guaranteed by the Nigerien Government or relating to shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. Exempt were (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold; and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Opera- 318 tions Account countries outside the West African Monetary Union were required to declare to the cus- toms the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. January 10. Order No. 1/MAECI made imports of rice, paddy, and hulled rice from all sources subject to prior authorization by the Directorate of Economic Affa irs (in consultation with the Rice Directorate). These regulations were confirmed on April 6 by Order No. 13/MAECI. January 14. Order No. 2/MAECI prohibited the export of sorghum and millet. January 22. Law No. 70-3 authorized the President to ra t ify the new association agreement with the EEC. The latter went into effect on January 1, 1971. January 23. Decree No. 70-23 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transactions with for- eign countries. It modified the capital controls intro- duced by Decree No. 67-161 of November 30, 1967. For purposes of investment and borrowing transactions, foreign countries continued to be defined as in Decree Nd. 68-159 of December 24, 1968, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through author- ized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister; pre- viously, direct investments required only prior declara- tion to the Minister, after which the latter had two months to request postponement. The liquidation of investments abroad continued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the mak- ing and liquidation of investments abroad by non- resident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Niger remained subject to prior declaration, after which the Minister could during a two-month period request postponement. The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresident of direct investment or other investments could be transferred abroad after submission of supporting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authori- zation by the Minister. The exemptions from this re- quirement were redefined. The reporting requirements for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether author- ized or exempt from authorization, required the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement were loans constituting a direct investment, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. March 27. Decree No. 70-105 was issued concerning certain financial settlements between Niger and Nigeria in accordance with the trade agreement of September 4, 1969. Bilateral payments arrangements went into effect. April 4. Order No. 131 amended Order No. 88 of March 20, 1969. New definitions were provided of "resident travelers" and "nonresident travelers," and the conditions were specified under which the latter could acquire foreign currency during their stay in Niger and take it out upon departure. April 7. Circular No. 8 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 70-23. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meeting the following conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 2 million; (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publication of Decree No. 70-23 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sion of existing borrowings and about advance repay- ment. July 15. The Government announced that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. July 23. Notice No. 6 to authorized banks, which amended Notice No. 2 of March 22, 1969, increased the exchange allocation for tourist travel from the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 to the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a year for each person (CFAF 37,500 for children under t en ). The allowance could be taken up entirely in foreign banknotes, whereas previously only CFAF 25,000 was granted in this form. NIGER August 10. Order No. 262, which amended Article 5 of Order No. 381 of December 26, 1968, provided that nonresident accounts held with authorized banks in Niger by their foreign correspondents could be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The conditions under which this would be permitted would be specified by circular (but see next August 10 en t ry ). August 10. Notice No. 7 to authorized banks amended Notice No. 1 of February 6, 1969. Foreign Accounts in Francs could henceforth be credited freely with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by foreign correspondents of author- ized banks. August 27. Law No. 70-17 created a state agency in charge of the marketing of foodstuffs (Office des pro- duits vivriers du Niger, or OPVN). It was also to draw up an import and export program for foodstuffs. September 15. Order No. 313 amended Order No. 88 of March 20, 1969. The amount of banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury that resident or nonresident travelers could freely take out on departure was increased from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000. September 15. Notice No. 8 to authorized banks revoked Notice No. 6 of July 23, 1970 and amended Notice No. 2 of March 22, 1969. The exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a person a year for tourist travel could henceforth be taken up twice a year, for two separate trips. September 15. Notice No. 9 to authorized banks amended Notice No. 3 of June 11, 1969. Residents could no longer use credit cards in foreign countries. October 12. Order No. 40/MAECI granted COPRONIGER a monopoly over the export of gum arabic. November 5. Order No. 42/MAECI prohibited the export of millet and sorghum unless approved by OPVN. November 9. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to banks. The reporting requirements with respect to their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1 ,3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound or <£N 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transac- tions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank from time to time. The rates for the U. S. dollar are deter- mined on the basis of the Central Bank's prevailing rate for sterling and the London market rates for the U. S. dollar. The Central Bank does not normally publish the rates at which it will buy and sell other foreign currencies but it is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers for specific transactions, on a spot basis only, for the cur- rency of any other Sterling Area territory except South Africa and South-West Africa, or for any specified cur- rency.1 For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves, with authorized banks in the Sterling Area, and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency 2 except Rhodesian currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign cur- rency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Until fu r ther notice, all export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies 2 (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U. S. dol- lars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Nigerian pound. 320 basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: the payment of shipping and marine insurance dues; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repay- ment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident invest- ments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal adminis- trator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and thus are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank applies a system of foreign exchange ra t ion ing in its biweekly allocations of foreign exchange to authorized dealers. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Ministries of Trade, Finance, Industry, Planning, and Customs, as well as representatives of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area,3 but pay- ments to Sterling Area countries are subject to the same approval requirements that are applicable to set- tlements w i th other foreign countries. Authorized pay- ments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Nigerian pounds to an External Account in Nigeria, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Nigerian pounds to a Scheduled Territories Account in Nigeria, or in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may t>e received in Nigerian pounds from an External Account or a Scheduled Territories Account, or in a specified currency. However, certain settlements with Niger are channeled through special accounts. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. 3 Nigeria's definition of the Sterling Area for exchange control purposes does not include South Africa or South-West Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident out- side Nigeria are divided into three categories: Sched- uled Territories Accounts, maintained for persons per- manently resident in a foreign country within the Sterling Area; Rhodesia Accounts, maintained for resi- dents of Rhodesia; and External Accounts, maintained for residents of all other countries. Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers f rom other Scheduled Territories Accounts and from External Accounts, and, subject to compli- ance w i th existing regulations, with proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies except Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Territories Accounts and, subject to prior approval, to External Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Ster- l ing Area currencies for approved purposes. Rhodesia Accounts have been blocked since July 3, 1969. External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts and, subject to approval, from Scheduled Territories Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for trans- fers to other External Accounts and to Scheduled Ter- ritories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign curren- cies other than Rhodesian currency. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. All imports from Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and South-West Africa are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of cer- tain specified commodities for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of about 20 other com- modities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with and these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Individual import licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Ruman ia, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam; and (2) many goods from other sources, including products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Imports neither prohibited nor subject to specific licens- ing may be imported under open general license. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports, but certain import payments are subject to delay. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank and is not NIGERIA norma l ly allowed. Payments for capital goods imported under suppliers' credit require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange in respect of import payments to authorized dealers against formal letters of request supported by approved exchange control forms and certified bills of entry and invoices; certain delays may occur before the Central Bank makes the exchange available. A "national reconstruction surcharge" of 5 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on virtually all imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to ind iv idual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice by the authorized dealers. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by the authorized dealers and are not among those requir- ing approval by the Ministry of Finance (such as prof- its and dividends) 4 are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval for some types of payment, provided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, certain delays may occur in the gran t ing of the exchange. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Sixty per cent of ship charter payments for export shipments must be settled in local currency. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of <£N 100 a person a year for travel outside Afr ica ( £ N 50 a year for children, subject to a limit of <£N 250 for any one family un i t ) .5 Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and ship- ping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell trans- portation tickets for any destination, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. There is a nominal allowance of <£N 1 a person a year for travel within Africa, which may be increased by the Central Bank according to the merits of the application. Applications for nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may pur- chase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of the ir gross taxable earnings in Nigeria for all personal 4 In 1968, an embargo was placed on the transfer of investment income accruing to nonresidents. 3 With effect from January 1, 1971, residents wishing to travel abroad more than twice in any calendar year (other than for recog- nized official or business puposes) required approval to do so. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA remittances, including the basic travel allowance, up to a max imum of «£N 3,500 a person in any financial year; transfers of management fees and directors' fees, however, are limited to «£N 1,000 a person a year. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them the equivalent of <£N 50 in sterling. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance of <£N 100 in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out <£N 50 in sterling and any other foreign currency notes that were declared upon entry. The export of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country except South Africa and South-West Africa (exports to these coun- tries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Marketing Boards (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The selling abroad of all export crops purchased by the Boards is the responsibility of the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company. The export of certain goods (African antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of cer- tain foods is prohibited. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements, and the export proceeds of the Marketing Boards may be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer for resale to the Cen- tral Bank, also within three months of shipment. For all exports, including those destined for a country in the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the requirement also applies to exports of hydrocarbon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Cen- tral Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. 322 Capital Except for the purpose of financing impo r t sG or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any country outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state-controlled corpora- tions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria ( 1) by any nonresident individual or com- pany, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary short- ages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or over- d ra ft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities nor may they buy from or sell to non- residents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. All foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and 6 However, the taking up of suppliers' credit abroad is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed without spe- cial permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than, jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins current in the United Kingdom requires a license f rom the Com- missioner of Customs and Excise. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bullion are du ty-free when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes; oth- erwise, such imports are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1970 January 16. The period within which export pro- ceeds must be surrendered was reduced from six months to three months from the date of shipment. February 20. Fish, paints, and varnishes were excluded from the open general license and required a specific import license. March 3. The Central Bank announced new priori- ties for the allocation of foreign exchange to individual authorized banks. Only for Category A would their full requirements be supplied to cover all approved trans- fers. Category A comprised (1) family remittances and certain other personal remittances; (2) purchases of books, periodicals, and scientific equipment by universi- ties and colleges; (3) chemicals for agricultural pur- poses; and (4) payments of freight, insurance, and charter fees for vessels carrying produce from Nigeria. April 20. The rate of theVnational reconstruction surcharge" was reduced from 7% per cent to 5 per cent of the applicable import duty. April 20. The Imports Prohibition (No. 2) Order 1970 came into effect and the Open General Import License No. 1 of 1970 was amended. The import lists of prohibited items and items subject to individual licensing were modified considerably. A number of commodities previously prohibited (including edible oils, butter, and certain textile articles, chinaware, and shoes) could be imported under specific licenses. April 20. It was announced that 16,000 motor vehi- cles would be imported in 1970 for distribution to both the public and private sectors. April 20. It was announced that Nigerian nationals would be given priority treatment with respect to the granting of import licenses and the allocation of for- eign exchange. April 20. It was announced that 40 per cent of the accumulated amount of arrears in respect of investment NIGERIA income accrued to nonresidents f rom direct or portfolio inves tment would be allowed t rans fer du r ing fiscal year 1970-71. April 22. The Central Bank announced that payment for imports of machinery and equipment valued at over £N 5,000 would be authorized on the fo l low ing basis: 5 per cent upon arrival of the documents; 15 per cent upon arr ival of the goods; and 80 per cent, in equal and consecutive ha lf-year ly installments beg inn ing upon delivery in Nigeria, w i th in one year for amounts up to £N 50,000, w i th in two years for amounts between <£N 50,000 and <£N 100,000, within three years for amounts between <£N 100,000 and <£N 500,000, and w i th in five years for amounts in excess of £N 500,000. These regulations were not applicable where the purchase contract was signed before April 22, 1970. Furthermore, in September they were amended to exclude all machinery valued at less than <£N 20,000, as well as agricultural and road-building equipment. April. Special accounts for settlements with Niger were established in accordance with the trade agreement of September 4, 1969. June 13. Certain items of equipment and agricultural mach inery and certain spare parts previously subject to specific license were transferred to the open general license. June 13. Certain commodities previously on open general license ( inc lud ing meats, woven cotton fabrics, and certain made-up textile articles) required specific licenses. Import du ty rates were adjusted for a wide range of items; they were increased for several liberal- ized products and reduced for construction materials and semiprocessed goods needed by domestic industry. November 1. Nonresident-owned or nonresident-con- trolled companies were allowed to transfer 20 per cent of their blocked profits and dividends. Another 20 per cent release would occur on March 1, 1971. November 11. It was announced that the Govern- ment intended to acquire at least 55 per cent owner- ship of the iron and steel, petrochemical, fertilizer, and petroleum products industries. A National Supply Organization would be established to handle all public sector procurement, including imports. November 28. Proceeds from all exports other than those made by the Marketing Boards, the oil compa- nies, and the tin mines were to be surrendered direct to the Central Bank. Previously, such export proceeds could be surrendered to an authorized dealer, which in turn was required to sell them to the Central Bank. November 28. It was announced that from January 1, 1971 residents wishing to travel abroad more than twice in any calendar year, other than for recognized 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA official or business purposes, would require approval to do so. November 28. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1971 the 40 per cent tax payable on interest on loans obtained outside Nigeria would be halved for loans with maturities in excess of five years and up to ten years, and waived for those longer than ten years. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Nor- wegian Krone or NKr 7.14286 = US$1. The official limits for the U .S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U. S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits which result from com- bining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a com- mercial basis. Norway accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are prohib- ited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries except Eastern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Payments between Norway and Eastern Germany are settled on a bilateral basis in accordance with a clearing arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Practically all industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list area1 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, includ- ing certain temperate zone agricultural products, are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for specified countries —one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R, and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automati- cally. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 13 quotas for agricul- tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely, but special per- mission is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commod- ities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equip- ment and materials for the fishing industry, pharma- ceutical products, and drugs) are imported by govern- ment monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in con- formity with the general rules (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any other country except Eastern Ger- many for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the pay- ments arrangement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. Payments for any pur- pose to any country other than Eastern Germany or Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not 1 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ru- mania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,2 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than NKr 500 to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Norwegian bank- notes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment with- out limit. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require indi- vidual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automati- cally. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities involv- ing nonresident interests are subject to approval. Nor- wegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian resi- dents by special permission may be resold to Nor- wegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, 2 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Po- land, Rhodesia, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 326 emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the Interna- tional Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resi- dent-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they have been bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to pur- chase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 50,000 a family. There are limits on the foreign positions of domestic commercial banks. The net foreign exchange holdings of banks may not rise above their level at the end of January 1970. Deposits and loans from foreign banks in foreign currencies may not increase above their level as at the end of March 1970 without the authorization of the Bank of Norway. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or pro- viding guarantee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Norway for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Changes during 1970 January 1. The requirement of a special license for imports of certain cotton textiles from Portugal was replaced by a requirement of submission of an export certificate issued by the Portuguese authorities for exports to Norway. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 10. New regulations were announced concerning borrowing abroad. Each bank's net foreign exchange holdings could not rise above their level as at the end of January 1970. Banks whose net holdings were nega- tive as of January 31, 1970 could establish a positive foreign exchange position, while those banks with unreasonably large net holdings had to reduce them. Deposits and loans f rom foreign banks in foreign cur- rencies could not rise above their level as at the end of March 1970 without the authorization of the Bank of Norway. November 24. A small number of items on the restricted list applicable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea were liberalized. NORWAY 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or PRs 4.76190 = US$1. All transac- tions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the Lon- don market their requirements of specified currencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. On December 31, 1970, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were £8.7630 buying, and .£8.7370 selling, per PRs 100, and on New York they were US$21.0627 buying, and US$20.8220 selling, per PRs 100. Other effective rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earn- ers or recipients of exchange may sell at freely deter- mined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodities or to importers or others to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. The vouchers are quoted spot and forward on the Karachi stock exchange. On December 31, 1970, these vouchers issued under the Export Bonus Scheme were quoted at about PRs 187 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Foreign tourists receive an effective exchange rate based on 45 per cent bonus. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 24 banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licen- ses and the implementation of import and export poli- cies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., a state trading agency. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended; there is an inoperative clearing account with India. 328 Exchange receipts must be obtained through an au- thorized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments abroad must be made through an author- ized dealer. Payments by residents of Pakistan to coun- tries in the Sterling Area are made by transferring ster- ling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, North Korea, Nepal, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. Payments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visi- ble trade (excluding border trade, Iranian oil, and de- fense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U. S. dol- lars. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control authorities for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India, except those of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, a licensable list, an export bonus list (also called bonus import l i s t ), and a cash-cum-bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the free list1 and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal bag- gage, certain imports over the land route from Afghan- istan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24 of June 12, 1951). The commercial import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered industrial con- sumers and commercial importers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, limitations are applied to individual import entitlements for goods on this list, ceilings on individual letters of credit being based on past import performance. Permissible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for all items on the list. Import licenses for commodities on the licensable list are granted on a discretionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items on the export bonus list and the cash-cum-bonus list are issued in ac- cordance w i th procedures indicated below. Goods on the free list and the licensable list are imported at the official exchange rate. Commodities not included in any of the four lists are prohibited or are not being licensed. With the exception of specific country licenses issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan agree- ments with particular countries, import licenses may be used in any country of the world other than the Repub- lic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Certain imports are only or in part effected through the intermediary of the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd.; they include sugar from specified countries, speci- fied raw materials, pig iron, and certain other metals. Licensing takes place in accordance with criteria that are determined administratively, and imports take place at the official rate but, depending on the commodity, may be subject to price equalization levies. Imports of rice, wheat, and coal are also reserved for public sector agencies. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to estab- lished commercial importers and industrial consumers and only for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. The quantities to be licensed to estab- lished importers are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special industrial licensing proce- dure operates for imports of licensable items by recog- nized industrial units. This procedure allows specified industries to receive import licenses for items not on the free list on a specific basis determined by the com- petent authority. For items on the licensable list, indus- 1 While private sector imports of free list items do not require an import license, public sector agencies require either an allocation from the Government or an authorization. All free list imports must be financed under aid arrangements or bilateral agreements. PAKISTAN trial consumers receive licenses according to fixed entitlements based on requirements for operations at single-shift capacity; commercial importers receive licenses under fixed quotas based on past import per- formance. Supplementary import licenses under a Raw Material Replenishment Scheme are granted to specified export- ing industries. The imports concerned must be made on cash-cum-bonus terms. Import licenses are issued freely under the Export Bonus Scheme for items on the export bonus list and for any item (other than sheet or plate glass) included in the free list, licensable list, or cash-cum-bonus list, provided that bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the amount of the license requested are surren- dered when applying for an import license. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within 21 days (12 months for imports of heavy ma- chinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer hav- ing to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Licensing of items on the cash-cum- bonus list is subject to the surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license.2 Commercial importers whose annual quotas do not exceed PRs 10,000 and industrial consumers whose annual entitlements do not exceed PRs 30,000, as well as industrial consumers importing under the Raw Material Replenishment Scheme, may surrender vouchers for these items no later than 15 days after the receipt of the shipping documents (subject to bank guarantee, indemnity bond, or, for public sector imports, letter of authority from the government department concerned). Capital goods generally are licensed only under for- eign aid. Imports of capital goods are payable at the official rate, but any required downpayment on private sector imports of capital goods and on most public sec- tor imports of such goods requires surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the down- payment (which is normally 10 per cent). Under a Pay- As-You-Earn Scheme, certain plant and machinery may be imported and financed on a deferred payment basis. Industrial units covered by the Scheme may use up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of export earnings for meeting their debt liabilities. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, and those against bonus import licenses, irre- 2 Certain goods that can be imported into West Pakistan at the bonus rate only may be imported into East Pakistan at the cash- cum-bonus rate. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN vocable letters of credit must be opened for all commer- cial imports. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufac- turers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. No import pay- ments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or consigned from the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Imports at the official rate of certain aid-financed iron and steel items, cement, coal, edible oils, and raw materials for the electrical equipment industry, etc., are subject to price equalization levies; the same items, when not financed with aid, are imported at the cash- cum-bonus rate. Imports of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty. Many imports are sub- ject to a customs surcharge ("regulatory du ty" ). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to the Republic of China, India, Israel, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regula- tions. Certain remittances of a personal nature are sub- ject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad require special author- ization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Most payments for invisibles are made at the official rate but some (payments for medical treatment, profes- sional training, operating expenses of Pakistan ships, technical fees, office expenses abroad, advertisement and legal fees, bank commissions and charges, royalties, trademarks, and patent and registration fees) are at the cash-cum-bonus rate, i.e., subject to surrender of bonus vouchers equal in face value to 50 per cent of the for- eign exchange required. Certain insurance payments are made on 45 per cent bonus and 55 per cent cash terms. In addition, certain exchange allocations for pilgrimages are granted at exchange rates deviating from the official rate (seebe low). The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's ap- 330 proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same ap- plies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistan income tax authorities. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia; for those traveling by air or first class by steamer, the allowance is subject to surrender of bonus for an equivalent amount.3 Those eligible are selected by ballot. There are also minor pilgrimage facilities for other Middle Eastern countries, subject to similar conditions for surrender of bonus. No exchange is being granted until further notice for tourism or other private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements un- der the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and maintaining branch offices outside Pakistan. Pakistan writers and journalists may use their foreign exchange earnings for approved travel abroad. The approval of the State Bank is required prior to booking passage for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan currency. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to India) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of <£10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made gar- ments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. The Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., has a monopoly over exports of specified products. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. After making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the 3 Deck passengers are granted their allocation at the official rate, and those traveling second class by steamer are allowed their exchange quota against surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of that quota. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months; export proceeds from ju te manufacturers, however, must be repatriated within six months. The surrender of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Under an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to all goods, exporters after surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency are issued bonus vouchers of a face value equivalent to 10 per cent (for primary products) or 35 or 45 per cent (for other goods) of the net exchange surrendered. Bonus vouchers are also issued to approved sales centers for their local sales to nonresidents against payment in foreign exchange. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 15 days of the date of realization of export proceeds or of the date of export, whichever is later (within 15 days from the date of negotiation of documents in case of exports against confirmed or irrevocable letters of credit) for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are not otherwise licensed for importation, as well as any com- modity (except sheet or plate glass) included in any one of the three other import lists. Under a Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme, certain industrial units are permitted to utilize up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Under a Raw Material Replenishment Scheme, sup- plementary import licenses are available to most export- ing industries. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Under the Export Bonus Scheme earners of foreign exchange derived from certain invisibles are issued bonus vouchers of a face value equivalent to 10, 35, or 45 per cent of the exchange surrendered. Foreign tourists receive an effective rate of exchange based on 45 per cent bonus. Pakistanis and persons of Indo- Pakistan origin who are employed abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 45 per cent of "all remittances of savings made by them to Pakistan through official channels; Pakistanis receiving pensions in foreign exchange are entitled to receive 45 per cent bonus; Pakistani writers and journalists also receive 45 per cent bonus for earnings in foreign exchange abroad; they may alternatively use their foreign exchange earnings to import articles for their personal use and for approved foreign travel. Earners of foreign exchange from certain other services (aircraft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repairs) are PAKISTAN entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 10 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 45 per cent of their exchange earnings. Bonus facilities apply also to all projects in Pakistan that are financed by the IBRD or the IDA; all sup- pliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 45 per cent of the foreign exchange earned from machinery items and 35 per cent from all other supplies, but not to bonus vouchers for advance payments. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (from India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may br ing in PRs 80 in Paki- stan currency notes, subject to declaration to the cus- toms, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denomintions of PRs 50, 100, and 500 may not be brought in. There is no limi- tation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest- ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment, in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatria- tion at any time of the principal and the prize win- nings. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules gov- ern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or re- tiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as non- residents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of securities issued in Pakistan in favor of nonresidents, provided the securities are registered in Pakistan and investment is made on the basis of non- repatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other non- residents against payment abroad with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general license has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipula- tions. Foreign life insurance companies have been given general permission to invest in shares issued by Paki- stan companies and quoted on the stock exchange. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation ar- rangements may be credited to blocked accounts. Sub- ject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistan nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their non- resident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistan nationals holding mov- able or immovable assets abroad require the prior ap- proval of the State Bank to sell these, and the liquida- tion proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. The movement of gold from West Pakistan to East Pakistan, where gold prices usually are higher, is subject to control. 332 Changes during 1970 January 1. The import program for the first half of 1970 went into effect. The number of items on the licensable list was raised to 38 from 33, while the free list was unchanged, except for the reintroduction of steel billets under U. S. aid, at 14 items. Few changes were made in the bonus import list (261 items); these included the addition of free imports of caustic soda in West Pakistan, which, however, was made sub- ject to a protective duty of PRs 300 a ton. The cash- cum-bonus list comprised 115 items. The surrender of bonus vouchers for imports under cash-cum-bonus terms could henceforth take place when the documents had to be retired from the bank; cash-cum-bonus licenses could be issued on production of a bank guarantee or indemnity bond to the effect that bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the face value of licenses would be surrendered at the time of retirement of docu- ments. Otherwise, the licensing of cash-cum-bonus items was subject to surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license. For 9 items of industrial raw materials, licenses would be issued to commercial importers as well as to unrec- ognized units, which previously could not receive licen- ses. Import payments could not be made for goods origi- nating in or consigned from the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Export Performance Licensing Scheme was abolished. A Raw Material Replenishment Scheme was introduced for manufacturers engaged in export business; imports under the scheme would be on cash-cum-bonus terms. As an innovation, part of the budgeted foreign assist- ance would be made available to importers immediatly, in some cases prior to the formal signing of the rele- vant loan agreements. This would be done by means of cash allocations from Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources, to be reimbursed subsequently by the credit- giving country. January 1. Nonresidents were freely permitted to buy and hold securities issued in Pakistan and expressed in rupees, but dividends or other monetary benefits and sales proceeds would not be eligible for remittance abroad; for this purpose, persons resident outside Pakistan were defined so as to include foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan also were freely permitted to invest in government securities, for purposes of income tax relief only and subject to cer- tain conditions, and could upon departure apply to the State Bank for permission to transfer the sales proceeds and accrued income, subject to certification that the specified conditions had been complied with. January 2. Civil servants on deputation with interna- tional organizations or with foreign governments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution became entitled under the Home Remittances Bonus Scheme to bonus on their remittances. January 8. Haj pilgrims traveling second class by steamer were granted foreign exchange on cash-cum- bonus basis as against earlier on fu ll bonus basis only. Haj pilgrims traveling by air or first class by steamer continued to be required to surrender bonus vouchers equivalent to the sum of their foreign exchange quota and the Jiddah dues. February 2. The forward exchange rates for a number of currencies in respect of imports under loans and credits were revised. They were again revised on August 1. February 4. Remittances of blocked earnings of foreign artists, which previously were allowed only against surrender of bonus vouchers for an equivalent amount, could also be made against surrender of bonus vouchers issued to hotels under the Hotel Bonus Scheme. The cost of passage of foreign artists became subject to surrender of bonus vouchers for an equiva- lent amount. February 26. The .approval authority in respect of remittances of dividends and interim dividends to non- resident shareholders (other than Indian) of companies incorporated in Pakistan was delegated to authorized banks. March 2. Authorized dealers were granted a general permission, subject to specific criteria, to grant rupee loans and advances to foreign or foreign-controlled companies operating in Pakistan for their working capi- tal needs, up to the "local borrowing entitlement" of the company concerned. March 3. Nonresidents holding Pakistani shares and other securities in Pakistan on the basis of nonrepatria- tion of capital and profits were permitted to sell such securities to Pakistan or foreign nationals on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and profits without refer- ence to the State Bank. March 5. Pensions received by Pakistan nationals residing in Pakistan and resulting from employment by foreign governments, international organizations, pri- vate agencies, etc., became eligible for bonus under the Home Remittance Scheme. March 21. A limited number of pilgrims to Iran and Iraq could acquire an exchange quota of £40; surren- der of bonus vouchers was required for travel by air, but other forms of travel were exempt. April 3. Bonus of 40 per cent was allowed on sup- plies of asbestos cement pipes and water meters to the Dacca Water Supply and Sewage Project when settled in foreign exchange. April 8. The existing regulations on the issue and transfer of securities in favor of persons resident out- side Pakistan were consolidated and reissued. PAKISTAN April 10. Authorized dealers were granted a general permission to approve remittances of royalties and technical fees in accordance with the directives given by the Department of Investment Promotion and Sup- plies or the State Bank. April 21. The regulations covering the issue of bank guarantees on behalf of foreign and foreign-controlled firms were consolidated and reissued. April 23. Transactions between the Trading Corpora- tion of Pakistan, Ltd. and the Foreign Transactions Co. of Iran henceforth were settled on a self-balancing basis through inconvertible U. S. dollar accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan and the Bank Melli Iran, Tehran. May 20. Regulations were issued for imports on a deferred payment basis, under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme, of plant and machinery for the setting up of new industrial units and for the expansion of existing units. Industrial units covered by the scheme could use up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for meeting their resulting debt liability. Debt service in excess of the 20 per cent limit had to be made at the cash-cum-bonus rate. Downpayment remittances could be financed either by surrender of bonus vouchers or by the raising abroad of foreign currency loans repaya- ble out of the above-mentioned 20 per cent of export earnings. The State Bank would issue Exchange Entitle- ment Certificates showing the value of plant and machinery imported on a deferred payment basis. June 29. An excise duty of 25 per cent was imposed on dealings in gold and silver. It was replaced on July 29 by a sales tax of 10 per cent. July 1. No movement of imported goods (other than books, periodicals, and newspapers) was permitted between East and West Pakistan. July 1. Pakistanis working abroad no longer were entitled to bonus on foreign currency they remitted to pay for passages by Pakistan International Airlines. Permission for private travel abroad by air ceased to be conditional on the use of Pakistan International Air- lines. July 10. Under the terms of the Import Policy for July-December 1970, export bonus was granted for the first time since the introduction of the scheme in 1959 on the major primary export commodities. A bonus of 10 per cent was allowed on exports (except under barter agreements) of raw jute, raw cotton, rice, hides and skins, and any other- primary commodity on which bonus had not already been granted. The bonus was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent for exports of raw wool and (with effect from July 20) for receipts from aircraft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repairs. The export bonus rates of 30 per cent and 40 per cent were each raised by 5 percentage points. The cash-cum-bonus rate was applied to a wider 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN range of imports (124 items), the free list remained at 14 commodity groups, and the bonus list comprised 272 items. (With effect from July 20, bonus granted on shipping earnings was raised from 30 per cent to 45 per cent.) July 13. Home remittances became eligible for 45 per cent bonus, as against 40 per cent previously. July 15. Certain invisible payments by the private sector previously effected at the official rate henceforth had to be made at the cash-cum-bonus rate. Among these payments were expenses for medical treatment and of professional training; operating expenses of Pak- istan shipping companies and their agents abroad; and remittances in respect of insurance premiums, technical fees, office maintenance expenses, advertising and legal fees, and bank commissions and charges. On July 17, royalties, trademarks, and patent and registration fees were added. On July 28, bank commissions and charges in the public sector were added. On August 4, remittances for educational expenses could again be made at the official rate. On August 22, certain expenditures of Pakistani ships plying on coastal routes Could again be settled at the official rate; on November 10 this exemption was broadened. July 31. A bonus of 45 per cent was granted on for- eign exchange encashed by foreign tourists in Pakistan and on foreign exchange remittances recovered by hotels in respect of services rendered to such tourists or received by tour operators for arranging package tours. August 10. Bonus of 45 per cent was allowed on exports of sugar effected on or after July 21. August 15. Bonus of 10 per cent was granted on cotton waste exported on or after July 10. August 17. Bonus granted to writers and journalists on their foreign exchange earnings was increased from 40 per cent to 45 per cent as from July 13. September 23. The regulations for imports under the French credit for 1969-70 were announced. Down- payments would not require surrender of bonus vouchers. October 3. While remaining eligible for 45 per cent bonus, exports of sugar (except normally those under bilateral agreements) were subsidized at a rate of PRs 17 per maund, payable at the State Bank. October 8. Bonus at 45 per cent was allowed on contributions to the "President's East Pakistan Relief Fund 1970" when made in foreign exchange by remitters covered by the Home Remittances Bonus Scheme. October 10. The validity of bonus vouchers was reduced from 30 days to 21 days. October 31. The bonus scheme for hotels was abol- ished, under which hotels had received bonus vouchers entitling them to import licenses equivalent to 30 per cent of most of their foreign exchange receipts from tourists. November 1. Bank credit granted to foreign-owned or foreign-controlled companies could not exceed 70 per cent of their capital and reserves. November 7. The annual exchange allocations for Haj travel were issued. For travel by air and first class by sea, bonus vouchers had to be surrendered. For second class travel by sea, exchange could be obtained at the cash-cum-bonus rate, while for third class travel by sea, exchange could be purchased at the official rate. November 7. The 10 per cent bonus on exports of primary commodities was granted also on shipments made under barter arrangements on or after July 10, 1970. November 30. The facility under which Pakistani firms selling supplies to the Tarbela Dam Project could receive export bonus was extended to all projects financed by the IBRD or the IDA. December 5. Bonus at 45 per cent was allowed on contributions to the Cyclone Relief Fund remitted by persons eligible under the Home Remittances Bonus Scheme. On December 21, the same bonus was granted on all private donations to East Pakistan Relief Funds by foreign nationals and foreign agencies. December 29. Remittances of reinsurance premiums arising from life insurance business done on or after this date were prohibited. December 30. With retroactive effect to July 15, 1970, certain outward remittances in respect of insur- ance or reinsurance that were previously settled at the official exchange rate or the cash-cum-bonus rate were made at effective exchange rates based on 55 per cent official rate and 45 per cent bonus, and certain inward remittances in this field became eligible either for this new rate or for 45 per cent bonus. December 31. It was announced that the import of a number of nonessential consumer goods would be banned dur ing the first half of 1971; they included pas- senger automobiles, domestic air-conditioners, various domestic appliances, and the more expensive types of watches. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa or B 1.00 = US$1. U .S. cur- rency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks are mainly based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture; import policy is made in consultation with the Committee of Adjustments, on which the Govern- ment, producers, and consumers are represented. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Reg- ulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by one of the Ministries men- tioned above. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports; the Ministries of Industry and Com- merce and Agriculture determine the import quotas for commodities that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 6 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on imports of all dutiable goods other than specified foodstuffs, for which the rate is 3% per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for human i tar ian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. Au tho r iza t ion is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on gold, silver, p la t inum, manganese, other minerals, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Two for- eign-supervised banks are authorized to conduct busi- ness only with nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are sub- ject to license if made by residents other than the mon- etary authorities; import and export licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U. S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of Vi per cent. Changes during 1970 April 18. The additional import tax was raised from 3>l/2 per cent to 6 per cent. The previous rate continued to apply, however, to certain foodstuffs. Medical equip- ment and medicines ceased to be exempt from the surtax. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para- guayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange trans- actions take place at free market rates, which since October 1969 have been pegged at 0 123.60 and 0 126.00 per US$1, buying and selling. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0 126.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through au- thorized commercial banks, except those related to gov- ernment payments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. All purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1 per cent, except transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat packing plants; and transactions relating to investments in Paraguay that are covered by Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. A tolerated parallel market exists in which the buying rate for the U. S. dollar was about 0 131 on December 31, 1970. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies x to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U. S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Paraguay and Argen- tina, Chile, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clear- ing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.2 All 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 These include certain agricultural products, depending on the season, certain petroleum products, cement, and certain wire and wire products. 336 other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made after the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for, inter alia, government imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of cer- tain international organizations, fuel and petroleum derivatives, certain machinery, agricultural equipment, wheat and wheat flour, and newsprint from any source, specified Spanish goods imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, imports from neighboring coun- tries (including Uruguay), imports from other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List), and imports falling under the regulations governing the incorporation of foreign capital. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 32 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is sub- ject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries, including Uruguay). There is an additional surcharge of 5 per cent (resulting in a total surcharge of 37 per cent) on imports from all sources of radios, record players, and their parts and accesso- ries. Commodities that are exempt from surcharge gen- erally are also exempt from advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clear- ance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for reli- gious, cultural, or educational purposes; imports by for- eign diplomats and certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and imple- ments imported through the Spanish free zone in Para- guay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; imports under the old Invest- ment Law No. 246; and imports for certain investments under the new Capital Investment Law No. 216. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In addition to the above surcharges, a tar iff sur- charge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law No. 1334/67, which implemented Decree-Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967, and Law No. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is 12-24 per cent (8-16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA conces- sions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calcu- lated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equip- ment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 246 or Industrial Development Law No. 202; imports under the new Law No. 216; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Most imports are subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law No. 69/68. In addition to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports: a con- sular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of 1% per cent, from which wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Technology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construction materials are subject to an additional cus- toms surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain arrears have arisen from time to time as a result of periodical releases of foreign exchange to the private commercial banks by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for speci- fied current invisibles, provided that appropriate docu- mentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each trip: the equivalent of US$150 for Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay; of US$300 for other Latin American countries.3 and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Banks may also sell exchange for living expenses of students abroad (including tuition) in amounts generally up to US$200 a month. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. 3 In'addition, banks may freely sell any amount of Argentine, Bra- zilian, and Uruguayan banknotes to travelers. PARAGUAY Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs are subject to an annual quota that is being reduced gradually. Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. All other exports require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an author- ized commercial bank; there are no legal sanctions for noncompliance with this requirement unless this is noti- fied to the Central Bank by the Superintendency of Banks. For all exports minimum surrender prices (aforos) are established; these prices, on which any fiscal charges are based, are of an indicative character, and the fu ll export proceeds should be surrendered. Pro- ducers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies of ll/2 per cent, 5 per cent, or 2l/2 per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. Exports of meat prod- ucts are exempt, but a single tax of 0 515 per head of cattle slaughtered is levied on the meat processing plants. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements in respect of the exchange proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may grant exchange freely for contractual capital transfers, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Other out- ward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970, the Capital Investment Law, empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. Capital imported under Law No. 216 may be retransferred in install- ments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of production. Gold Decree-Law No. 18 of 1952 provides that the Cen- tral Bank may determine the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired from the Central Bank or insti- 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY tutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In prac- tice residents may freely purchase and sell gold in the form of jewelry. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is granted to residents other than banks and industrial users. The import of gold does not require an import license and payments may be carried out through an authorized bank. Changes during 1970 March 2. As provided by Central Bank Resolution No. 37, Act No. 187, of November 12, 1969, each commercial bank's import credit was limited to 30 per cent of its total credit volume. March 10. Central Bank Resolution No. 17, Act No. 46, took note of certain recommendations of February 23 of the National Economic Coordination Council. These included (1) gradual reduction of taxation of foreign currency deriving from tourism; (2) the obligation for banks to transfer to the Central Bank 30 per cent of their receipts of foreign currency, except Uruguayan pesos; (3) simplification of formalities for exports; and (4) a ceiling equivalent to 20 per cent of their capital and reserves on banks' external liabilities serving to finance imports. April 10. Ministry of Finance Resolution No. 382 imposed an additional tax on the import of whiskey and cigarettes for re-export. April 17. Central Bank Resolution No. 133 provided the following: (1) Banks' borrowing abroad to finance imports was restricted to 20 per cent of their capital and reserves; exempt were capital goods and certain other commodities when financed by the National Development Bank. (2) Banks were prohibited from financing imports of nonessential goods with foreign credit. (3) Banks could freely borrow abroad to finance exports. April 17. Central Bank Resolution No. 134 permit- ted banks to purchase any foreign currency offered for sale by foreign tourists. Furthermore, banks could freely sell any amount of Argentine, Brazilian, and Uruguayan currency in banknotes or in any other form to residents or nonresidents. April 17. Central Bank Resolution No. 134 included the Argentine peso among the specified currencies, of which authorized banks had been required to sell to the Central Bank 30 per cent of their gross receipts. April 17. By virtue of Law No. 182 of December 19, 1969, Central Bank Resolution No. 132 exempted exports of meat products from all export charges. Instead, a single tax of 0 515 per head of cattle slaughtered was imposed on the meat packing plants. May 19. Decree No. 12407 made imports of com- pletely knocked-down automobiles subject to the same aforos and customs duties as fully assembled auto- mobiles. Assembly plants would receive individual ex- emptions. July 1. Decree-Law No. 13339 revoked the authoriza- tion to import cement under Law No. 202, Law No. 246, and other exceptional regimes. November 9. Law No. 216, the Investment Promo- tion Law, was promulgated and came into force imme- diately. It was equally applicable to domestic and foreign investment in Paraguay. For investments deemed "necessary," the law provided for income tax reductions and for exemptions from import duties, other import charges, and advance deposits; lesser priv- ileges could be accorded to investments considered "advantageous" (conventente). Both categories would be exempt from taxes on exchange transactions. The law also guaranteed the transferability of capital earn- ings (including royalties) on foreign capital invested in approved projects; amortization could be transferred abroad three years after the beginning of production, provided that the importation of the capital had been registered with the Central Bank, and such transfers would then be allowed in annual installments of 20 per cent. Any foreign loans to finance investments covered by the law required the prior authorization of the Cen- tral Bank. The new law revoked Law No. 202 of September 7, 1953 and Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955 but did not affect the benefits already granted under those laws. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par va lue for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fixed exchange rates, an exchange cer- tificate market rate applying to all trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, including the prin- cipal capital movements, and a draft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. The for- eign exchange requirements of the public sector are met entirely through the certificate market. Export pro- ceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued in U. S. dollars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. No exchange certificates are issued against export pro- ceeds surrendered by the public sector, nor are certifi- cates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct from and to government agen- cies at the certificate rate. When approved applications for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. All foreign exchange receipts that are not required to be surrendered at the certifi- cate rate must be sold in the draft market, in which only the Banco de la Nacion and its authorized agents operate. Access to the draft market is controlled and purchases of foreign exchange are permitted only for specified payments not eligible for exchange at the cer- tificate rate. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent on certificate sales and a commission of 1A of 1 per cent, buying and selling, on transactions in the draft market. On December 31, 1970 the certificate market rate was S/. 38.70 per US$1 and the draft market rate was S/. 43.38 buying, and S/. 43.50 selling, per US$1. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are subject to a tax of 10 per cent or 50 per cent, depending on the amount purchased. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances; the principal exemption is for remittances in respect of for- eign financing of imports and exports. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Exchange licenses pe rm i t t ing the use of certificates for non trade transactions are issued by the Central Reserve Bank, except in the case of profit remittances by branches of foreign companies, which require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exchange certificates are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru. All imports and payments for services by the public sector require the approval of the Commission on External Transactions for the Public Sector and a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Most borrowing abroad by the public sector is subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, upon favorable recommendation by the National P lann ing Institute and the Permanent Com- mission on External Credits in the Ministry of Econ- omy and Finance. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies; exchange certificates at present are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. However, settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars, which have been established under bilateral payments agreements. No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clear- ing system. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Cuba are prohibited. The import of a number of consumer durable goods and other com- modities considered nonessential is prohibited from any source other than LAFTA countries. All other com- modities may be imported freely without a license. Public sector agencies, however, may not place import orders without the prior approval of the Commission on External Transactions and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by, or within quotas set by, the Public Company for Agricul- tural Services (EPSA). Exchange certificates may be utilized for payment for imports through the commer- cial banks, which receive foreign currency against delivery of the certificates. The commercial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the importation of mer- 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU chandise. Imports under documentary letters of credit or on a documentary collection basis, but not open account imports, may be paid with certificates. The rel- ative shipping documents and the bill of lading must be forwarded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registration and validation. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Payments for most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Authorization is required in order to pay for invisi- bles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The transactions in invisibles that are eligible for the certifi- cate market include government payments and pay- ments by foreign companies in respect of the follow- ing: remittance of profits, depletion and depreciation allowances, remuneration of technicians hired abroad, and other contractual obligations, whether already con- tracted or to be contracted in the fu ture. Remittances of net profits and of depletion and depreciation allow- ances require a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clearance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Prior tax clearances are also re- quired for many other types of payments. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates must be obtained in the draft market. These payments include travel expenses, for which there is an allocation of the equivalent of S/. 1,800 a person a day, for not more than 60 days in any one calendar year, as well as an additional allocation of S/. 8,000 a person, which may only be taken up once a year. Purchases of ex- change in the draft market for purposes other than travel, students' expenses, and medical expenses are permitted only with the approval of the Banco de la Nation. Travel exchange is subject to a tax of 10 per cent on amounts up to the S/. 1,800 allocation, and of 50 per cent on amounts in excess of S/. 1,800 up to S/. 3,600. Air and sea passages are subject to a 5 per cent stamp tax. The export of domestic currency in ex- cess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Cuba are prohibited. All exports are sub- ject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export proceeds must be received in U. S. dollars. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit con- firmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within ten working days of payment. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received 340 within 180 days of shipment. All exports other than agricultural products, fishmeal, and fish oil are subject to payment of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is chargeable against fu tu re payments of profit tax. Non- traditional exports are granted tax refund certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value (18 per cent when they are shipped in Peruvian vessels). Proceeds from Invisibles Public sector entities must surrender their full receipts at the certificate rate. All other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the draft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require prior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans contracted by the private sector, provided that the for- eign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organi- zations, and for payment of debts guaranteed by the State. Interest payments on loans for which amortiza- tion may be transferred through the certificate market may also be made at the certificate rate. Dividends may be transferred at the certificate rate when they originate from newly imported foreign capital that has been sur- rendered to the central bank; the repatriation of such new capital is allowed through the draft market. New foreign investments must be registered with the Minis- try of Industry and Commerce to have access to the certificate market for profit remittances and to enjoy tax incentives under Peru's promotional laws. The transfer through the draft market is permitted of prin- cipal and interest on loans not registered in the certifi- cate market and of dividends and royalties not eligible for the certificate rate. Law No. 13270 of November 30, 1959, the Industrial Promotion Law, provides that the Executive may raise import duties on foreign products to encourage and develop existing or new industries. Decree Law No. 18350 of July 27, 1970, the Gen- eral Industrial Law, sets rules for new foreign invest- ments in the industrial sector. New industrial compa- nies established in Peru with 100 per cent foreign ownership must enter into contracts with the State which will guarantee capital repatriation and reasonable profit remittances; af ter a certain time the share of for- eign capital should be reduced progressively to no more than 33 per cent. Companies incorporated with both foreign and domestic capital should not have foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital in excess of 75 per cent and then, under a con- tractual obligation with the State, should reduce the foreign participation to no more than 49 per cent within a specified time. Investment in the m in ing sector is governed by the Mining Code of May 12, 1950, supplemented by Law No. 15584 of June 11, 1965 and by Decree Law No. 18225 of April 14, 1970. Companies holding mining concessions may enter into m in ing contracts with the Government p rov id ing for special incentives and guar- antees or constitute mixed enterprises with government participation of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of mining contracts, the Government may grant to mining concessionaires initiating large-scale investment programs tax incentives and guaranteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers of (a) recovery of investment; (b) interest payments if the rate does not exceed 3 per cent above the prime rate in the financial market from which the loans originate; (c) payments for justified services; and (d) reasonable profit remit- tances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Peru. All imports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. Exchange is made available only for imports of gold bars by the monetary authorities and by authorized industrial and professional users. Changes during 1970 January 2. A bilateral payments agreement with Poland was signed. January 6. Decree Law 18099 extended for 90 days the period within which foreign-owned banks had to reduce the foreign participation in their capital to 25 per cent or less. February 18. A bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was signed. March 17. Decree Law 18181 extended, sine die, the import prohibitions introduced by Supreme Decree 202-68-HC of March 1, 1968, and subsequently revised by Decree Law No. 17535. March 17. By Decree Law 18180, commercial bank credit to foreign corporations or affiliates of foreign- based firms was limited to annual overall credit quotas fixed by the central bank. In addition, foreign compa- nies were required to report to their banks details of their shareholders and capital on a quarterly basis. April 14. By Decree Law 18225, the Organic Law of the Mining Industry, mining companies were offered PERU two preferential alternatives to the general regime of m in ing concessions: ( 1) entering into m in ing contracts with the Government, which entails special incentives and guarantees; or (2) constituting mixed enterprises with government participation of at least 25 per cent, which are entitled to additional privileges. The Govern- ment took over exclusive rights to the sale and pricing of copper and all other metals produced in the country. The same decree also provided for the creation of a state mining agency. Empresa Minera del Peru, to handle the Government's newly assumed functions. May 2. A reciprocal credit agreement with Brazil came into operation. May 8. The minimum legal capital requirement for foreign commercial banks was raised from S/. 60 million to S/. 150 million. Foreign banks affected were given 180 days to comply with the new regulations. (Decree Law No. 18263.) May 15. By Decree Law 18275 and Supreme Decree 072-70-EF, the Government introduced a comprehen- sive set of exchange controls in the draft market, while the certificate market was left unchanged in scope and mode of operation. Henceforth, all draft market opera- tions were to be conducted solely by or for the account of the government-owned Banco de la Nacion. Controls on draft market operations were placed under the gen- eral supervision of an Exchange Committee composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Cen- tral Reserve Bank, and the Banco de la Nacion. The draft market rate (which had been a fluctuating one, although recently pegged - against depreciation), was henceforth set by the Central Reserve Bank, which had to provide the Banco de la Nacion with the foreign exchange needed for the operation of this market. Pay- ments through the draft market, previously unre- stricted, could only be made for specified purposes and subject to supporting documentation, namely, for (-a) principal and interest on loans, (b) dividends, (c) roy- alties and patents, (d) reinsurance, (e) travel expenses, (f) student expenses, (g) rnedical expenses, and (h) any other purposes approved by the Exchange Commit- tee. Limits were established on the sale of exchange for foreign travel, study abroad, and family remittances, and the Banco de la Nacion was empowered to author- ize sales of exchange in excess of these limits in extraordinary circumstances only. Foreign exchange was no longer made available for capital transfers, with the exception of loan amortization not eligible for the certificate market and, under certain conditions, capital repatriation by nonresidents. Prior tax clearance requirements were introduced for many types of for- eign payments. Peruvian residents were forbidden to maintain deposits in foreign exchange in Peru or abroad, to hold foreign currencies, and to contract any obligation in foreign currency. Deposits in foreign cur- 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU rency maintained with the domestic banking system were converted into soles at the draft market rate and ownership of the corresponding foreign assets of the banks was transferred to the Central Reserve Bank. All sight deposits maintained abroad had to be repatriated within 15 days and the proceeds sold to the Banco de la Nacion. Term deposits and other investments abroad had to be declared to the Banco de la Nacion and repatriated at maturity or upon sale of the asset. Resi- dents also had to surrender within 30 days all other for- eign assets held in Peru. All proceeds from services rendered abroad and all income earned on foreign hold- ings were henceforth to be surrendered. The draft market buying rate was set at the average buying rate of May 15, 1970, or S/. 43.38 per U. S. dollar; the selling rate was set at S/. 43.50 per U. S. dollar. May 15. All gold imports henceforth were settled through the certificate market. May 19. With the exception of borrowing for na- tional defense purposes, all contracting of external debt by the public sector became subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, upon favorable recommendation of the National Planning In- stitute and of the Permanent Commission on External Credits in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. (Decree Law No. 18281.) May 26. Decree Law 18284 exempted foreign citi- zens with less than 20 years' residence in Peru from the obligation to sell their foreign currency deposits held abroad and exempted foreign citizens with less than 10 years' residence in Peru from the obligation to declare their assets held abroad. July 7. Decree Law 18332 transferred the functions of the Exchange Committee to the Banco de la Nacion. July 27. Decree Law 18350, the General Industrial Law, set rules for new industrial companies to be established in Peru with foreign ownership. These com- panies were to enter into contracts with the State pro- viding for a period after which the share of capital in foreign hands should be reduced. Any existing com- pany with more than 75 per cent foreign ownership would have to enter into a contract with the Govern- ment, setting up a schedule under which foreign share ownership would be eventually reduced to 33 per cent or less. In the case of joint ventures in which foreign capital participation did not exceed 75 per cent, a similar arrangement was to be effected by which foreign holdings would be reduced to 49 per cent or less. August 14. Decree Law 18368 required companies holding mining concessions to submit before Septem- ber 30, 1970 comprehensive investment programs, in a revised fo rm from that already required in September 1969. Failure to submit the investment program by the deadline entailed revocation of the concession. September 18. Decree Law 18407 introduced an exchange tax on purchases of exchange for travel abroad. The rate was 10 per cent on amounts pur- chased within the daily allocations and 50 per cent on amounts in excess of the daily allocations. The Banco de la Nacion was empowered to sell residents twice the standard travel allocation, provided that the appropriate tax was paid. October 28. Supreme Decree No. 242-70-EF required foreign banks operating in Peru to extend to the Banco de la Nacion lines of credit in foreign cur- rency equal to at least twice the capital of their branches in Peru, plus an amount equal to the increase in the branches' deposit obligations to residents above the level of July 31, 1970. November 3. Decree Law 18457 prohibited the im- port and export of Peruvian currency. Subsequently, an exemption of up to S/. 1,000 was announced for travelers. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso or P 3.90 = US$1. However, all exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; since September 1970 it has kept this rate stable at P 6.435 per US$1. In spot transactions with their cus- tomers, commercial banks are required by the Associa- tion to observe certain margins. The maximum and minimum spot buying rates are l/2 per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The minimum and maximum spot selling rates are 3A per cent and PHILIPPINES letters of credit as compared with 50 per cent in normal cases. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence regarding the purpose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of for- eign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remit- tances for educational expenses, maintenance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and film and other rentals (see below). Exchange for travel abroad is made available as follows: (1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an addi- tional representation allowance of US$500) for each person for business or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Africa, North and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusi- ness travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, the Repub- lic of China, or any other neighboring country. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad: for studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of- school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, labora- tory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus- tralia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Remittances for educational expenses and student maintenance abroad are allowed only to students working for a degree at duly accredited col- leges or universities. The following limits apply for remittances to depend- ents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The maintenance allowances for dependents are allowed only for close relatives under certain conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents are permitted in full for investments in resident companies engaged in projects approved by the Board of Investments or in export- oriented industries. For other industries, remittances of profits and dividends in full are also permitted, pro- vided that resident companies either do not avail them- selves of domestic credit resources or are controlled by Philippine residents. In all other cases, remittances of profits and dividends accruing to nonresidents are 344 allowed up to an amount of 25 per cent of their equity participation (net of taxes). Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trade marks, and copyrights are permitted up to 50 per cent of the royalties or rentals, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manufactured locally under the royalty contract. Remittances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are permitted up to 50 per cent of the shares or rentals. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be purchased, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current invisible payments administratively withheld prior to November 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 5 may consist of domestic silver and/or nickel coins. Citizens of the Philippines and permanent resident aliens, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 400 for a first class ship or plane ticket or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Filipino muslims making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the for- eign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an author- ized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of foreign sales; export permits for copra and coconut oil, however, are only issued by the Central Bank. Banks must sell to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their exchange receipts from export bills. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the pre- scribed currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; how- ever, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 30 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Exports to Indonesia must be invoiced in U. S. dollars. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export- oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equipment, raw materials, and other requirements. A stabilization tax is levied on the proceeds from major exports. The rate is 10 per cent for logs, copra, centrifugal sugar, and copper ore and concentrates; and 8 per cent on molasses, coconut oil, dessicated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chromite ore and concen- trates, copra meal or cake, unmanufactured abaca, unmanufactured tobacco, veneer core and sheets, ply- wood, lumber, canned pineapples, and bunker fuel oil. Exempt from this tax are all commodities whose total export value in any year is less than US$5 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permit- ted to open U. S. dollar deposit accounts with the Cen- tral Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U. S. dollars they remit to the Philip- pines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remit- tances by residents or nonresidents of foreign currencies for deposit in foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances do not represent current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to contractual obliga- tions. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. PHILIPPINES Capital All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. For the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the Board of Investments (BOI), export-oriented indus- tries, and other (nonexport-oriented) industries not uti- lizing domestic credit resources. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatri- ation of foreign direct investments, depending upon the category of industry where the investment is made. Investments in BOI-approved industries and in non- export-oriented industries not utilizing domestic credit resources may be repatriated in five equal annual installments starting two years after the commencement of production. Repatriation of investment in export- oriented industries may start one year after the com- mencement of production; however, annual installments may not exceed net foreign exchange earnings. Invest- ments in all other industries may be repatriated in ten equal installments starting two years after the com- mencement of production, if previously approved by and registered with the Central Bank. Commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal interna- tional trade transactions. Residents may obtain sup- pliers' credits from abroad provided that their maturity is not less than five years. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years starting one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- tracts or transactions involving assets within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corpo- ration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning trans- actions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES investors in enterprises registered with the Board of Investments are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different ar- rangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly investments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manufacturing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U. S. citizens, corpora- tions, and associations are given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain authority from the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, permission from the Board must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold must sell their entire output to the Central Bank at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce (calculated at P 3.90 per U. S. dollar) to be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the float- ing exchange rate in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production, subject to prior licensing by the Central Bank. Residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 January 26. Imports of wheat flour required the spe- cific authorization of the Central Bank. January 28. Regulations were issued by the Central Bank covering foreign exchange acquisitions and dispo- 346 sitions by Philippine flag vessels and vessels of foreign registry owned by residents of the Philippines. January 29. Letters of credit for the importation of spare parts were required to stipulate drawings by usance drafts of 180 days or longer. February 11. Letters of credit for the importation of spare parts by export industries and export-oriented industries, when not exceeding US$20,000 (for other importers US$5,000), became exempt from the mini- mum 180-day usance requirement. February 21. A major exchange reform was intro- duced. A free market with a fluctuating exchange rate was created for all international transactions, with the exception that 80 per cent of the proceeds from speci- fied leading export products continued to be subject to surrender at the par value; these were commodities whose annual average export value exceeded US$75 million in the base period 1966-68. The reform was accompanied by a relaxation of restrictions on trade and payments (previously, the opening of import letters of credit was restricted to essential commodities and amounts not exceeding 55 per cent of the average level in the October 1968-March 1969 base period, and all payments for current invisibles were restricted). The monthly ceilings on the opening of import letters of credit for each bank were lifted (except for three cate- gories of commodities), and the special time deposit requirements for imports were abolished. Sales of for- eign exchange were permitted for all imports, except commodities in the unclassified consumer (UC ), semi- unclassified consumer (SUC), and nonessential con- sumer (NEC) categories. Sales of foreign exchange for payments for current invisibles were allowed subject to certain limits established by the Central Bank. Arrears in current payments were subsequently eliminated. February 21. The Central Bank issued regulations governing capital transactions. New foreign borrowings and new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) were subject to prior approval of the Central Bank. Certain guidelines and limitations were estab- lished for repatriation of foreign investments. February 21. Imports on a documents against acceptance (D /A) basis and under open account arrangements became subject to a minimum repayment period of 180 days. March 2. Imports of wheat grain, raw cotton, leaf tobacco, and tallow were restricted to those under the U. S. Commodity Credit Corporation's export sales program. March 2. The import of any single unit of machin- ery and equipment valued at over US$50,000 became subject to the approval of the Central Bank. March 10. Exporters were required to receive the proceeds from exports within 30 days from the date of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shipment and to surrender the foreign exchange to commercial banks within 3 business days from the date of receipt. Formerly these periods were 60 days and 10 days. March 10. The Central Bank issued regulations gov- erning "no-dollar" imports. Those that had arrived before February 21 continued to be subject to the spe- cial time deposit requirements. March 31. The Central Bank announced that, pur- suant to the revised trade agreement concluded between the Philippines and Indonesia on May 30, 1969, the payments agreement between the Central Bank of the Philippines and the Bank Indonesia was formally termi- nated. April 8. Certain textile items (mainly remnants, sec- onds, and factory rejects of cotton, silk, and rayon tex- tiles) were shifted from the unclassified producers (UP) to the unclassified consumers (UC) category. April 14. Gold producers wishing to take advantage of the floating exchange rate in lieu of the subsidy were required by Monetary Board Resolution No. 562 to ex- port their gold production, subject to prior licensing by the Central Bank and subject to surrender of the ex- change proceeds to that Bank in accordance with Cir- cular No. 289. May 1. A stabilization tax was levied on the exchange proceeds from specified exports by Republic Act No. 6125. The requirement that 80 per cent of the proceeds of the leading exports be surrendered at the par value was abolished, and all exchange transactions henceforth took place in the free market. For the period ending June 30, 1971, the tax for the leading exports (logs, copra, centrifugal sugar, and copper ore and concentrates) was established at 10 per cent of the f.o.b. peso proceeds, based on the free rate prevailing on the date of receipt. The rate for the 13 other speci- fied commodities was 8 per cent for the same period. Commodities with a total export value of less than US$5 million a year were exempt. The tax was to remain in effect until June 30, 1974, with the rates declining by 2 percentage points each year, beginning on July 1, 1971. May 11. Commercial banks were required to sell daily in the interbank market foreign exchange equiva- lent to the amount by which their foreign exchange holdings exceeded 30 per cent of their outstanding reg- ular sight letters of credit. May 19. The import of wheat was permitted under a contract with the Canadian Wheat Board. June 8. An export-deduction scheme for export- oriented industries was introduced. July 13. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) to nonresident partners or shareholders of Fili- pino-controlled firms were permitted without restriction PHILIPPINES even when such firms had availed themselves of domes- tic credit resources. July 14. Authorized agent banks required a uniform cash margin deposit of 30 per cent against import let- ters of credit (sight and usance). The requirement was increased to 50 per cent on October 2. July 21. A foreign currency deposit scheme was introduced allowing banks designated by the Central Bank to accept deposits in foreign currencies from resi- dents and nonresidents provided that they resulted from inward remittances; there were no restrictions on their transferability or withdrawal. The banks concerned were authorized to issue negotiable certificates against such deposits, and to adopt a numbered account system for their recording and servicing. At all times they had to maintain a 100 per cent cover in foreign currencies, of which at least 15 per cent as a foreign currency deposit with the Central Bank. Balances could not be converted into pesos except under swap arrangements with the Central Bank. July 22. Imports of machinery and equipment with a unit value of less than US$50,000 could be settled on a cash basis. July 24. An Exchange Stabilization Fund was estab- lished by the Central Bank. Effective August 1, com- mercial banks were required to transfer to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their receipts of foreign exchange in respect of export bills purchased. August 31. An Export Incentives Law was enacted (Republic Act No. 6135). It permitted certain income tax exemptions for new export production. It came into force on the same date. September 9. For purposes of calculating the stabili- zation tax on centrifugal sugar exports to the United States, the U. S. import duty and the stevedoring charges in the United States were excluded from the gross f.o.b. value of the relative export shipments. September 22. The Bankers' Association stabilized the "guiding rate" in the free market at P 6.435 per US$1. October 19. The requirement of prior approval by the Central Bank for imports of machinery and equip- ment with a value of over US$50,000 was relaxed for commodities in the essential producer (EP) category. Established importers and export-oriented industries could effect such imports, if payable within 360 days, without prior approval. November 4. Republic Act No. 6141 came into force. An additional travel tax was introduced of P 300 and P 200 for first class and other tickets, respectively. This tax was additional to the basic travel tax of P 100 payable on all tickets, which had been introduced by Republic Act No. 1478 (approved June 15, 1956). November 9. Republic Act No. 6142, the Foreign Bor- 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES rowing Act, came into force. It regulated direct bor- rowing abroad by the Government and guarantees for foreign borrowings. The Act required that the Central Bank approve all new external loans before they were contracted; this approval could not be granted for loan requests which in the aggregate would bring total debt service payments in any subsequent fiscal year to an amount exceeding 20 per cent of the average foreign exchange receipts of the Philippines during the immedi- ately preceding three years. Guidelines were subse- quently established regarding the amounts and terms of new external borrowings by Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 1852 of November 17. November 13. The relaxation of restrictions on imports of machinery and equipment with a value of over US$50,000, which was introduced on October 19, was rescinded. Such imports again required Central Bank approval. December 22. Firms that had been delinquent in repaying foreign loans required the prior approval of the Central Bank before they could purchase foreign exchange f rom authorized agent banks. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo or Esc 28.75 = US$1. Exchange rates for the U. S. dollar, the pound sterling, and the other currencies quoted by the Bank of Por tuga lx are based on the relative exchange rates in the international exchange markets; the Bank of Portugal's quoted rates are for dealings with the public only, and its sales to the commercial banks are made at 0.2 per cent below the quoted rates. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying or selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all exchange transactions. For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U. S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dol- lars" (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and the pound sterling rate to transactions in "agreement pounds ster- ling" (for Poland), while fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such trans- actions in foreign markets and must justify the amounts of their sales of escudos to nonresidents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in con- vertible currencies for their own account; their pur- chases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Pur- chases and sales of unquoted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commis- sion basis. Banks are requited to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized pur- poses, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the foreign exchange resources of the commercial banks, and in certain circumstances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal.3 1The quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. 8 On February 6, 1971 a ceiling was placed on the net foreign asset position of the commercial banks. Their working balances in the form of sight deposits or investments with a maturity of up to one year, net of foreign liabilities with a maturity of up to six Capital held abroad by residents in the form of for- eign exchange that is not subject to surrender require- ments may be transferred to other residents through authorized commercial banks at official rates of exchange. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents who are private persons. There is no forward exchange market, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with individ- ual customers; the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions with the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par with the metropolitan escudo. The parity for the Macao pataca is Esc 4.75 = pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges collected by the credit institutions concerned which may not exceed 0.6 per cent; this limit is 0.3 per cent for payments resulting from transactions in foreign currencies and settled through another overseas territory or through metropolitan Portugal. For collection of bills of exchange the maximum transfer charge is 1.2 per cent; this limit is reduced to 0.6 per cent when the interterri- torial transfer results from a transaction in foreign exchange settled through another overseas territory or through metropolitan Portugal. In addition, interterrito- rial payments are subject to a service charge payable to the Bank of Portugal as agent of the interterritorial clearing and payments system and to a service charge of */2 of 1 per cent in favor of the Exchange Fund of the overseas province concerned.4 Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories con- stitute a single exchange control territory, the Portu- guese Monetary Area or Escudo Area. Within the Escudo Area, interterritorial payments are channeled through special accounts maintained by the Bank of Portugal (which is reserve bank of the Escudo Area, agent of the clearing system, and agent of the Mone- tary Fund of the Area) and the Exchange Funds of the individual overseas territories. Decree-Law No. 41,403 of November 1957 and Decree-Law No. 44,016 of November 1961 provide that the foreign exchange regulations of metropolitan Portugal shall be applied in the overseas territories, subject to any local adjustments months, could not exceed the equivalent of 5 per cent of their escudo liabilities (sight deposits, time deposits up to 30 days, and deposits subject to notice of up to 30 days). 4 For Macao, which has no Exchange Fund, the Banco National Ultramarine, which is the bank of issue. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL that may be necessary. Current payments between met- ropolitan Portugal and the overseas territories and vice versa are in principle unrestricted, but certain payments between national territories are subject at present to a system of priorities. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Commis- sion of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating within the office of the Directorate-General, or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by economic coordination departments within the Ministry of Economy. Practically all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portu- gal (see footnote 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are set- tled through clearing accounts maintained in U. S. dollars (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey), in pounds ster- ling ( for Po land ), or in escudos or the currency of the partner country ( for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and Hunga ry ). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Payments between the overseas terri- tories and foreign countries may be made either direct through the Exchange Funds of the territories con- cerned or, by means of the interterritorial clearing system, through metropolitan Portugal or another over- seas territory. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Por- tugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the 350 opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) pay- ments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Por- tugal and foreign countries,5 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,6 and (c) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal and for amounts exceeding Esc 50 million with a maturity exceeding one year the approval of the Ministry of Finance is also required. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Por- tugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrange- ments: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresi- dent accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade frauds. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must be certified by the Corporation of Commerce and must pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. A registration procedure is applied, however, for payment control purposes, and certificates of origin are required to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via overseas territories. Certain products, such as cotton and some oilseed products, may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories (af ter local industrial demand has been satis- fied) but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Special regulations are applied to sugar, imports from overseas territories being free of restrictions while imports from foreign countries are authorized only if supplies from overseas territories are insufficient. 5 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo from payments to nonresidents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such payments in escudos only in exceptional cases. 6 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned is required to inform the Bank of Portugal of the nature of the transaction for which escudos are required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Almost all imports from outside the Portuguese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin- serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bul- letin is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is normally 90 days, but extensions are often granted. Payment for imports already cleared through customs requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made after the validity of the bulletin. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain food- stuffs, other agricultural products, certain na tural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported from other GATT coun- tries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Furthermore, a somewhat more extensive negative list comprising 33 items applies to Japan.7 Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports from Eastern European countries are generally licensed restrictively or in accordance with bilateral agreements. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports from certain EFT A countries. Imports of non- liberalized industrial products, except for certain pro- tected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan- titative restriction when originating in EFT A countries. Special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal. Imports of passenger cars are allowed up to 75 units (for EFTA countries 150 units) a year for each producer, while imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from EFTA countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports from other GATT countries are available under special or open license. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through author- PORTUGAL ized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also generally free of quantitative restrictions, but they are subject to procedures which differ in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely for the various transactions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral paymen ts agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of foreign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 a person a year for tou r ism ;8 and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the author- ized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Applica- tion must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses; exports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the pri- mary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the pre- scription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domes- tic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign cur- rency indicated in the bulletin, if payment is not received from a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to sur- render. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portu- gal does not have bilateral payments agreements. Also, 7 The overseas territories (except the free port of Macao) apply a negative list of some 225 items. 8 Upon verification of the genuineness of the transaction, the Bank of Portugal authorizes the equivalent of Esc 20,125 a person a trip. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL payments from residents of countries with which Portu- gal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins for other purposes require authori- zation from the Bank of Portugal. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of exter- nal transactions. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transactions, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries require prior approval by the Bank of Portugal; for transactions in excess of Esc 50 million whose maturity exceeds one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Foreign investments in Portugal by residents of countries that are members of or associated with the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development and provided that no specu- lative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activ- ities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, oil refining, and fishing. Furthermore, Decree No. 393/70 specifies certain industries in which any domestic or foreign investment is subject to prior authorization. The transfer abroad of the full proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment which origi- nated in a bona fide inward capital movement from OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized without restriction. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a matu- rity of up to five years are liberalized when a Portu- guese resident participates in the underlying commer- cial or service transaction. The acceptance of other foreign credits is normally permitted. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. 352 Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indispensable for the national economic development. In practice, authoriza- tion is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other resi- dents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an insti- tution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a prior author- ization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized automatically up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of the case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a family when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of family loans, bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are usually authorized automatically up to Esc 500,000; for higher amounts, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. For bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of death. Gifts to relatives resident in OECD countries are authorized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insur- ance policies due from Portuguese insurers are author- ized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a sur- render value. Capital movements and transfers of assets in excess of the limits mentioned, or not enumerated in the pre- ceding paragraphs, or involving countries other than those mentioned above, are authorized on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal, and there is a free gold market in Lisbon. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metropolitan Portugal and foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution countries, is subject to special advance authorization f rom the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of met- ropolitan Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Licensing of imports is relatively liberal but import authorizations for industrial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Association of Industrial Users of Gold. Domestic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transactions tax of 20 per cent. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in wh ich both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary Area may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U. S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; au thor i ty to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1970 April 28. Decree-Law No. 183/70 codified and amended the rules of procedure for private capital transactions among the national territories and between these and foreign countries. Responsibility for the con- trol of capital transfers was transferred from the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance to the Bank of Portugal. Applications for private capital movements between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries required the prior approval of the Bank of Por- tugal, while operations of more than one year's term for amounts in excess of Esc 50 million must be approved also by the Minister of Finance. The Bank of Portugal was empowered to exempt from prior authori- zation transfers of up to Esc 100,000 but did not grant such exemption. June 1. Licensing of imports of industrial gold was transferred from the Ministry of Commerce to the PORTUGAL Bank of Portugal. Import licenses ("bulletins") were no longer granted but commercial banks and the Associa- tion of Industrial Users of Gold had to apply to the Bank of Portugal for authorizations. July 10. New negative lists and bilateral quotas came into force for imports from Japan into metropolitan Portugal and the overseas territories (except Macao), respectively. The scope of the negative lists was slightly reduced. August 19. Decree No. 393/70 specified in List I the industries in which any domestic or foreign investment would remain subject to authorization and in List II a number of industries in which (beginning 180 days after issuance of the Decree) such investment would no longer require authorization. September 25. Decree No. 448/70 provided that any national territory experiencing balance of payments pressures could establish priorities for remittances to other national territories subject to the approval of the Ministries of Finance and Overseas Provinces. November 10. The following measures were announced. Ceilings had been imposed on the foreign exchange holdings of the banks of issue and the com- mercial banks in the overseas territories. Import restric- tions in Angola and Mozambique would be intensified. November 11. A joint decision of the Ministries of Finance and Overseas Provinces was published which established priorities effective the same date for the fol- lowing remittances from Angola and Mozambique to any other national territory: air and sea fares; tourist expenses, up to specified amounts; family remittances, up to specified amounts; dividends and other income from companies, up to 8 per cent a year; interest on loans and private or public debt bonds; and pensions and other social security payments. November 24. Decree-Law No. 578/70 provided for measures to prevent dumping in metropolitan Portugal and the overseas territories, including countervailing duties. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc or RF 100 = US$1. The National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has established official limits for banks based on par values for the U. S. dollar and for other convertible currencies; those for the U.S. dollar are RF 99.25 buying and RF 100.75 selling. The authorized banks' rates may fluctuate freely between these limits. The National Bank maintains official quotations within these limits for the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies;x the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were RF 99.50 and RF 100.50, respectively, on December 31, 1970. There is a free market for transactions in foreign banknotes in which the authorized banks' middle rates are not per- mitted to deviate from par by more than 15 per cent; banks may not import or export banknotes. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are in principle to be determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Payments to Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda must be made in the currency of the country concerned. Otherwise, outgoing payments may be made in any currency; receipts must be obtained in one of the cur- rencies quoted and specified by the National B a n k .* Most payments to Portugal and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. All foreign payments except in border trade must be made by bank transfer. Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. Most imports from Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except baggage and household effects of travel- ers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submit- ted to the National Bank through an authorized bank 1 Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, Congolese za'ires, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 354 on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Modele I ). The approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license per- mits the importation of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified companies. The National Bank grants global import licenses for other commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are exam- ined at the National Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoicing and to ensure that importers do not have excessive recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that pay- ments are made to the supplier country. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the intermediary bank. Payments for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda and must be made within the validity period of the license. Importers of automobiles must lodge a deposit or provide a banking guarantee covering the import payment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles; such approval is nor- mally given in all cases where no illegal outflow of capital seems to be involved. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages (after income tax and after deduction of RF 15,000 a month) of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independ- ent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports and exports cannot be made until the goods have been cleared through customs or after the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may be remit- ted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonres- idents may transfer their net income from rents (after deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for ma in tenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution With permission from the National Bank, residents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs. Purchase of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and house- hold effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declara- tion entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certification. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in 8 RWANDA days from their collection. All claims must be collected within 30 days from the date on which they become payable. Travelers may br ing in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national re turn ing to his own country. Retransfer guar- antees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are norma l ly made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1970 September. Zaire banknotes could only be negotiated in the free market. September 23. Rwanda advised the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. December 1. Austrian schillings, Portuguese escudos, and Spanish pesetas were deleted from the list of offi- cially quoted currencies, and Bu rundi francs and Con- golese zai'res were added to it. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian Riyal or SRls 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U. S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. All settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; there are no other restric- tions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of cer- tain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of Feb- ruary 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1970 April 22. The 5 per cent subsidy on imported meat was abolished. September 2. The 8% per cent subsidy on imported wheat and rice was abolished. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign coun- tries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capital controls, however, the coun- tries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance and Investment Division in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Much of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of For- eign Trade), including those for gold. Import certifi- cates for liberalized commodities are made out by the JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Da- homey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. importer himself. The Senegalese Agricultural Market- ing Agency (Office de Commercialisation Agricole du Senegal) has a monopoly over exports of groundnuts and imports of white rice and has authority to import certain other essential foodstuffs. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with Guinea are made through bilateral accounts established under a payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those coun- tries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Por- tugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South African origin and /or provenance are prohibited from any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohib- ited from all countries except member states of the West African Customs Union (UDEAO). The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area other than Mali are gener- ally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Affairs. Imports of virtually all goods from EEC countries and imports of some goods from former OEEC countries, the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restrictions; such liberalized imports 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricul- tural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000 (c.i.f. or delivered at the bo rde r ). The import licenses or import certificates enti- tle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or eight days before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person (CFAF 50,000 for children under t en ); any foreign exchange remain- ing after return to Senegal must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. Allocations of travel exchange must be marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a for- eigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if the country of destination is not a member country of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare the 358 if it exceeds to the customs amount taken out CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; other banknotes as stated above; and any means of payment established abroad in their name, such as travelers checks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, dia- monds, tunny ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be collected and surrendered within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; res- idents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an author- ized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and for- eign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Senegal 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Sen- egalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, as do issues by Senegalese companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) 3 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in Senegal. 4 Including these made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. SENEGAL loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one bor- rower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the External Finance and Investment Division. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, as amended on May 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) with the Government by which he receives certain legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A conven- tion d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a m in imum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a minimum investment of CFAF 40 million in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and staff, may be accorded the des- ignation of priority enterprises; as such, they are eli- gible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By virtue of Ordinance No. 60-21 of Octo- ber 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree No. 65-794 of Novem- ber 19, 1965). 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Changes during 1970 January 7. Circular No. 7 was issued concerning the issuance and utilization of carnets de change for 1970. The tourist travel allocation remained unchanged at the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year. January 9. Circular No. 10 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 69-1133. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authori- zation as (1) loans taken up by authorized banks; and (2) loans meeting the following conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate, (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 40 million, and (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publication of Decree No. 69-1133 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sion of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. January 23. Circular No. 22 tightened the supervi- sion over shipping accounts (Camptes d'escale); a fur- ther tightening occurred by Circular No. 298 of December 12. April 28. Circular No. 80 provided that residents applying for a cornet de change had to present their national identity card and the travel tickets to an authorized bank (see also June 23, below). April 28. Circular No. 81 was issued concerning the domiciliation in France by traders resident in Senegal of imports of merchandise shipped direct from a for- eign country to Senegal. Such domiciliation, although now possible, was to remain exceptional. April 28. Circular No. 82 modified Circulars Nos. 19 and 60 of 1969. It abolished the special definitions of resident and nonresident used for the travel regula- tions (these being defined henceforth as in Order No. 505 of January 10, 1969); provided that foreign bank- notes surrendered by returning tourists could not be credited to the carnet de change; and forbade the use of credit cards abroad by Senegalese residents unless prior authorization was obtained from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (see also June 23, below). May 6. Decree No. 70-521 subjected the import of 360 certain cotton piece goods from all sources to prior authorization. May 23. Circular No. 101 amended Circular No. 44 of March 20, 1969 to make it agree with Decree No. 69-1126 of October 17, 1969 and Decree No. 69-1133 of October 21, 1969. The change related to the credit- ing to nonresident accounts in CFA francs of the pro- ceeds of direct investments liquidated by nonresidents. May 27. Order No. 6493 established the conditions and procedures for applying for an import-export card to be issued in accordance with Decree No. 69-111 of October 11, 1969. June 2. Circular No. 118 was issued regarding the opening of foreign accounts and foreign security dos- siers for persons previously resident who became non- residents. It provided that the acquisition of nonresi- dent status (which remained automatic after a two-year stay abroad) would have no retroactive character and that therefore the funds previously held in a domestic bank account or the sales proceeds of securities or real estate held in Senegal could not, on acquiring nonresi- dent status, be considered as freely transferable. Such bank balances and the proceeds of the sale of securities and real estate acquired prior to the change in status (as well as the income from such securities and prop- erty) would, on the acquisition of nonresident status, have to be put in a suspense account (Compte d'attente). June 11. Senegal announced that it would withdraw from the OCAM sugar agreement. June 23. Circular No. 141 was issued abrogating most existing circulars regarding exchange allowances for travel to foreign countries and the import and export of domestic and foreign means of payment and consolidating the relevant regulations. No changes in allocations were involved. July 16. Decree No. 70-883 prohibited the importa- tion of certain green coffee. August 17. Circular No. 208 made transfers abroad in respect of study subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. August 19. Circular No. 214 permitted authorized banks to credit BCEAO banknotes to foreign accounts in CFA francs in the name of foreign correspondents mailing these notes direct from abroad to the BCEAO's Dakar agency. August 20. Ministerial Order No. 11570 amended Order No. 505 of January 10, 1969. Subject to direc- tives to be announced by circular, nonresident accounts in the name of foregin correspondents of authorized banks could again be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute maintaining an Operations Account with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL French Treasury. (Circular No. 214 of August 19, how- ever, which implemented the Order, made this facility available only for BCEAO banknotes.) September 1. BCEAO Instruction No. 5 to Author- ized Banks advised that BCEAO banknotes presented by foreign correspondents for credit to foreign accounts in CFA francs had to be mailed direct to the BCEAO in Dakar. October 6. Decree No. 70-1066 made imports of household and toilet soap from all sources subject to prior authorization and quantitative restriction. October 6. Decree No. 70-1077 made imports of margarine from all sources subject to prior authoriza- tion and quantitative restriction. October 9. BCEAO Instruction No. 6 to Banks dis- continued the requirement of quarterly reports concern- ing their external claims and liabilities. October 12. Decree No. 70-1102 made imports of lubricants from all sources subject to prior authoriza- tion. December 31. Circular No. 307 announced the issu- ance of a new carnet de change for 1971. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Leone or Le 1 = US$1.20. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = «£ stg. 0 10s. Od., subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current London market rates. Certain capital trans- fers to non-Sterling Area countries are channeled through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may, with minor exceptions, be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency.1 Authorized pay- ments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodes ia), including payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other foreign currency 2 except Rhodesian cur- rency. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia) may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.3 Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the 1 In this survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Sched- uled Territories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regu- lations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South Africa. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than Sterling Area cur- rencies. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 362 Sterling Area that is freely exchangeable for Sierra Leon- ean currency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with author- ized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from mainland China, countries in the Soviet area other than Czecho- slovakia and the U.S.S.R., and Algeria, Guinea, the Republic of Korea, and the United Arab Republic, and certain commodities 4 from any source require individ- ual import licenses. With the exception of specified tex- tiles,5 all other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R., and most countries and territories outside mainland China and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.6 Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. 4 The "negative" list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and preparations, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammunition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewelry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, raw tobacco, certain textiles and textile articles, fiber suitcases, umbrellas, plastic footwear, cement, commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Pro- duce Marke t ing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kernel, and palm oil), salt, certain oil refinery products, all sizes of complete passenger automobiles, certain other motor vehicles, and certain parts of motor vehicles. 5 These specified textiles may be imported under open general license f rom all countries other than Ceylon, mainland China, Repub- lic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hun- gary, India, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Pakistan, Poland, Ruman ia, and Singapore. Imports from the sources men- tioned are restricted. 6 The open general license applies to Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahama Islands, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Den- mark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Remittances to all other countries require approval, which for most current transactions is given freely. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, res- idents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addi- tion to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, the equivalent of Le 20 in any combination of leone notes and sterling notes and Le 50 in foreign currency notes other than Rhodesian currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities sold to certain desti- nations, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 3) of exports other than diamonds to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone or elsewhere in the Sterling Area within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The proceeds from exports of diamonds must be obtained in a specified currency which must be sold to either of two designated authorized banks in Sierra Leone. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes other than Guinean franc notes; the importation of the latter is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area coun- tries. Capital payments to nonresidents of the Sterling Area are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated outside the Sterling Area; when Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxem- bourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauri- tania, Mexico, Morocco. Muscat and Oman, Netherlands, New Zea- land, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanza- nia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U. S. S. R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Windward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. SIERRA LEONE such purchases are approved, they must normally be financed w i th investment currency acquired in the London market. Investments by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The p lac ing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires per- mission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usua l ly required to obtain bank certification of the f u n ds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appre- ciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and cus- toms du ty concessions to foreign and domestic compa- nies under tak ing industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncit- izens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of businesses. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these excep- tions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold pro- ducers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry valued at up to Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1970 September 1. The Non-Citizens (Trade and Busi- ness) Act, 1969, as amended in February 1970, went into effect. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE September 4. Agreement was reached that the Gov- ernment would take over 51 per cent of the capital of the major diamond marketing company. October 1. General Import License No. 1 of 1971 was published. A schedule to the license listed the goods that would be subject to specific license irrespec- tive of origin. The country coverage of the open gen- eral license was unchanged but the special restrictions on specified garments (see footnote 5) would no longer apply to Japan. Government Notice No. 1035 invited applications before October 31 for import licenses for goods listed in the schedule. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE x Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Sin- gapore Dollar or S$3.06122 = US$1. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, stands ready to buy Singapore currency against sterling at S$7.4204 per £ stg. 1 and to sell Singapore currency for sterling at S$7.2734 per <£ stg. 1; these rates include a commis- sion of 1 per cent per Singapore dollar which the Board charges per Singapore dollar issued or redeemed, and no additional commissions are charged. The Board deals only in sterling and only at these limits. No official buying and selling rates have been established for other currencies. Commercial banks deal directly with the Monetary Authority of Singapore, which has discretion to buy and sell sterling within or at the limits of the official buying and selling rates of the Currency Board. The rates quoted by the commercial banks for custom- ers are within 1 per cent on either side of the par value. As at December 31, 1970 the buying and selling rates of the commercial banks were S$7.3500 and S$7.3825 per ,£ stg. 1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.2 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Singapore dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quo- tations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1970, the commercial banks' selling rate for the U. S. dollar was S$3.0900 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in the three countries concerned, at the com- mercial banks and with the monetary authorities. Singapore accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Authority of Singapore administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls. 1 In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1971, this sur- vey presents the position as at that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and gen- erally follows the prescription of currency arrange- ments and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Certain payments to Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. are made through special accounts. Payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made either in Singapore dol- lars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified cur- rency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency, other than Rhode- sian currency, sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are permitted freely under open gen- eral license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons, and in such cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. Some imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South Africa or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in, wholly or mainly manufactured in, or consigned from Albania, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Mongolia, and 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE North Viet-Nam, and license applications for such goods must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco Ltd., which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries. Intraco, a state-sponsored trading company, conducts much of the importing business with state trading countries. For imports of certain commodities, the open general license does not apply to Japan. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to com- mercial transactions and personal payments of a cur- rent nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are authorized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$ 10,000 a person a year for travel outside the Sterling Area and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of S$2,000 in foreign currency notes and Sterling Area banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei) may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Travelers visiting Singapore may take out any amount of foreign currency notes and Sterling Area banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei) that was declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States are subject to restrictive licensing, and all exports of waste paper, copra, scrap iron, steel bars, cement, and 366 untreated bird feathers are restricted. Other commodi- ties do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area and for exports to any country of gold in any fo rm; this requirement serves to ensure that the pro- ceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing ex- change receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei cur- rency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, and other travelers may bring in S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei cur- rency notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Capital transfers from Singapore to countries outside the Ster- ling Area require exchange control approval. Inward transfers of capital from such countries do not require approval but the subsequent utilization of nonresident- owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit may freely accept depos- its in specified currencies and Sterling Area currencies from an External Account from nonresidents of Singa- pore and may freely on-lend specified currencies to non- residents of Singapore; banks require individual exchange control approval for corresponding borrowing or lending transactions with residents of Singapore. All transactions must be conducted over accounts held in the Asian Currency Units of the banks concerned. Investment by residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution scription monies are derived from an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Subject to prior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities held in Sin- gapore and of other investments may be freely repa- triated by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Borrowing f rom local banks by nonresident-con- trolled companies is subject to control. Investments by Singapore nationals in countries out- side the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of Singapore. Gold The Board of Commissioners of Currency has issued a gold coin of S$150 that is legal tender. This coin may be freely held and used by residents. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely take out or bring in three such coins; additional quantities require exchange control approval. Otherwise, the following applies. There is a free gold market in Singapore to which only nonresidents of the Sterling Area have access. Only authorized dealers in gold may deal in gold bul- lion, and licenses are issued to them to import gold for sale in this market. Settlements must take place in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a specified currency. Buyers may export the gold or deposit it with an authorized dealer; they may resell it to any authorized dealer. Residents other than authorized dealers are not per- mitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Imports of gold jewelry and ornaments and of gold wire for industrial purposes do not require a specific import license, but otherwise permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given, except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial use. The import of gold for the manufacture of jewelry for domestic sale takes place under a tender system administered by Intraco. All goldsmiths, who must be registered with the Investment and Exchange Control Department of the Monetary Authority, may take part. Successful tenderers are granted purchase permits ena- bling them to obtain their supplies of gold from the authorized agents of Intraco. The amount that any suc- cessful tenderer may purchase is limited to 1,500 ounces a quarter. Imports of gold bars, including those SINGAPORE effected under the tender system, are subject to a levy of S$3 an ounce. There are no other duties or taxes applicable to domestic or foreign gold transactions. Exports to Sterling Area countries of articles manufac- tured partly or wholly of gold require neither exchange control approval nor an export license. Otherwise, exports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. The price of gold used for the manufacture of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1970, this price was about S$190 per tahil for 24 carat gold and S$171 per tahil for 22 carat gold. Changes during 1970 January 2. Imports of pharmaceuticals were freed from quantitative restriction. February 13. Imports of apples, oranges, pears, and certain other f ru i ts no longer required a specific license. March 20. Imports of gold jewelry or ornaments, gold wire for industrial purposes, rice bran, and chil- dren's bicycles no longer required a specific license. April 1. Certain hides and skins, certain meats, and poultry, livestock, cattle, and pigs were freed from spe- cific licensing, but imports continued to be supervised by the Primary Production Department. April 10. Authorized banks operating Asian Cur- rency Units were upon application permitted to issue certificates of deposit denominated in U. S. dollars to nonresidents and to deal in such certificates among themselves. May 2. Intraco levied a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from Albania, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Mongolia, and North Viet-Nam. June 1. The basic foreign exchange allowance for travel outside the Sterling Area was raised from the equivalent of <£ stg. 500 to the equivalent of S$ 10,000. The maximum amount of foreign currency notes and Sterling Area banknotes (other than those of Singa- pore, Malaysia, and B rune i) which travelers were allowed to take out of Singapore without special permis- sion was raised from the equivalent of <£ stg. 250 to the equivalent of S$2,000. June 1. The amount of Singapore banknotes which travelers other than those going to or coming from Brunei or Malaysia were allowed to take out or bring in without special permission was raised from S$500 to S$ 1,000. June 1. The quota for 1970 for imports of sheet and plate glass was raised from 120 to 150 per cent of 1968 imports. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE July 11. Following the withdrawal of pioneer status from the production of 45 categories of manufactured goods, the Government announced that henceforth firms producing exclusively for the home market would not be granted pioneer status. July 25. The Economic Expansion Incentives (Relief from Income Tax) Act of 1967 was amended to encourage the setting up of heavy industries and the more sophisticated export-oriented industries. The tax relief available to new pioneer industries was reduced by providing for the deduction of depreciation allow- ances and losses for the purpose of computing exempt profits. This change, however, did not apply to certain enterprises making very large fixed capital expenditure. The period of relief available to an export enterprise which is not a pioneer enterprise was reduced from 15 to 5 years; where the export enterprise is also a pioneer enterprise the combined tax relief period was reduced to 8 years. However, the 15-year period of relief remained unchanged for certain enterprises making very large fixed capital expenditure in Singapore. September 2. The Banking Act, 1970, was passed to repeal the Banking Ordinance, 1958 and the Banking (Amendment and Extension) Act, 1965. It introduced a number of modifications designed to ensure sounder banking practices and also provided for the opening of numbered accounts. September 2. The Monetary Authority of Singapore Act, 1970 was passed. It provided for the establishment of a statutory corporation, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, which would perform certain central bank- ing functions (including the supervision and control of commercial banks and finance companies), implement the Exchange Control Ordinance, and act as banker and financial agent of the Government. It would not, however, take over the currency issue functions of the Currency Board. The Minister of Finance would be the Authority's chairman. October 9. Imports of used motor vehicles (passen- ger cars, buses, and goods vehicles) were made subject to specific licenses, which would be issued only for re- export purposes. On November 11, imports of used commercial vehicles and buses were freed from licensing. November 11. Coin-operated vending machines no longer required a specific import license. November 11. Imports of sheet and plate glass were freed from specific licensing and quantitative restric- tion. November 27. The Japanese yen was listed as a specified currency. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1971: January 1. The Monetary Authority of Singapore began operations. It took over the administration of exchange control from the Ministry of Finance. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling or So. Sh. 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange transactions in "convertible" currenc iesx with authorized dealers2 at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par value or official rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral pay- ments agreements are made at rates corresponding to official par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and its agencies operating as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (including banking commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Authorized exchange dealers generally do not conduct forward exchange transactions on beha lf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the prin- cipal government agency concerned with the implemen- tation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negoti- ated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to appoint its agencies as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of n ine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Industry and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and con- trol of foreign economic transactions. The National and the Local Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Somali National Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, pounds sterling, South Arabian dinars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 In May 1970, all commercial banks had become agencies of the Somali National Bank but retained their individual status as author- ized dealers. In January 1971, however, two independent commercial banks were established. by the National Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with mainland China and the U. S. S. R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling. Settlements with the United Arab Republic must be made mostly in convertible cur- rencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from the United Arab Republic and all payments for invisibles to the United Arab Republic other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor bal- ance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with that country; other payments normally are chan- neled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "con- vertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals abroad on diplo- matic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; for- eign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplo- matic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources within Somalia; and by other physical or juridical persons individually authorized by the Somali National Bank to maintain a nonresident account. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities from all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. All other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for 11 commodities or groups of commodities, constituting approximately one third of total imports in value. Some of these commod- ities may be imported only from specified sources.3 No quotas are maintained for any imports. The state trad- 3 The permitted origin varies from commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supply are the U. S. S. R. and/or the United Arab Republic. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA ing organization (The National Agency for Foreign Trade, Ente Nazionale di Commercio or ENC) is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distribu- tion of certain commodities received under aid pro- grams. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consu- lar agencies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the applica- tion or on such other subsequent day as may be speci- fied by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of pay- men t) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Special payments regulations apply to border trade. Payments for imports from neighboring countries 4 are permitted only by letter of credit, by cash against documentation, and by advance payment, up to a limit of So. Sh. 10,000, against a cash deposit of 15 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are nor- mally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali National Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Commit- tees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tourist travel by residents, there is an allowance of the equivalent of 4 Aden, Djibouti, Mukalla, Ethiopia, and Kenya. 370 So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out without authori- zation any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the coun- try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Exports of bananas and nine other commodities or groups of commodities are subject to license; other exports may be made freely. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marketing Board. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Where no banks are operating such exports are permitted up to So. Sh. 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a cur- rency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March 1968). In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. For "produc- tive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irrigation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution struction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drill- ing activities in connection with oil and mineral explo- ration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or par- tial exemption to any enterprise from import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax, for a period not exceeding five years. For invest- ments registered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemp- tions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of resident employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on For- eign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. Such coins and unworked gold may be traded in Somalia only against domestic cur- rency, at fixed buying and selling rates established by the Somali National Bank on September 26, 1964; these rates are So. Sh. 7.937 and So. Sh. 8.101 per kilo- gram, respectively. With these exceptions, residents ofher than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Somali National Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fine- ness of not more than 22 carats within one month. Imports are exempt from customs duty when originat- ing in EEC countries and subject to a 10 per cent duty when of other origin. Changes during 1970 February 22. The cash deposit requirement for open- ing import letters of credit was abolished. SOMALIA March 1. Authorized dealers were instructed not to purchase, send for collection, or accept for credit to a nonresident account any foreign banknotes except when offered by a bona fide traveler submitting his currency declaration form. March 26. Approval was granted for importers to make advance payments for imports from neighboring countries on the payment of a cash deposit equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the transaction. This reg- ulation was amended on September 17 (see below) to limit such advances to So. Sh. 10,000 a person a month. May 7. By Law No. 26, the commercial banks, all of which were subsidiaries of foreign banks, were nationalized and brought under the control of the Somali National Bank. The petroleum distributing companies, a sugar firm, and an electricity company also were nationalized. The National Insurance Com- pany would be the only firm authorized to sell insurance in Somalia (it did not start operating in 1970). July 14. Law No. 33 of July 7 concerning the status, objectives, and operations of the ENC came into force. Law No. 16 of June 12, 1962 on the establishment of the ENC was repealed. August 10. Special payments regulations which per- mitted traders who did not operate through banks to use the proceeds of exports to a neighboring country to import goods from that country, up to So. Sh. 10,000 a person a month, were withdrawn. August 13. A Banana Marketing Board was estab- lished. September 1. A facility which allowed traders in border areas operating through banks a revolving advance payment, without submitting documentation, up to So. Sh. 10,000 a person a month was abolished. September 8. An Agricultural Development Corpora- tion was established. September 17. Payments for imports from neighbor- ing countries could only be made by letter of credit, by cash against documentation (provided that bills for collection were accompanied by documentary evidence and submitted through the banking system), or by advance payment (up to So. Sh. 10,000) against a cash deposit of 15 per cent. Exports of commercial com- modities to neighboring countries were permitted only if a letter of credit had been established in favor of the Somali exporter. Where no banks were operating, such exports were permitted up to the value of So. Sh. 10,000. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per South African Rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 171.2140 buying, and R 172.0715 selling, per <£ 100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1970, were US$1.3985 buying, and US$1.3900 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa, South-West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secre- tary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsi- bility of the Treasury, which has delegated this author- ity to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evi- dence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Set- tlements with residents of other countries except Rho- desia may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to spe- cial regulations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries outside South Africa, South-West Africa, 1In the South African exchange control regulations, specified cur- rencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 372 Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (the Blocked Accounts, however, of residents of the last three coun- tries also are nonresident accounts—see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South African residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South Africa; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhode- sia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents; with transfers from Non- resident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South Africa; with transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer in South Africa of Rhode- sian currency, any specified currency (see footnote 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South Africa, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country con- cerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian res- idents to South African residents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South Africa for any purpose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South Africa; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r ican residents to such countries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers from other External Accounts in South Africa and from External Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South African resi- dents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling Area; for purchases of any non-sterling currency; and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the proceeds from sales of South African securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit or rein- vested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in government, municipal, or public utility stocks, the proceeds on redemption at maturity are freely transfer- able to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue made available to nonres- idents only, of three-year nonnegotiable, nontransfera- ble bonds (called nonresident bonds) bearing interest at 3% per cent and repayable (in three annual install- ments from the date of subscription) in foreign curren- cies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct invest- ment in manufacturing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South African securities held by immi- grants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorable consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all SOUTH AFRICA goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1970 distin- guished between the following categories: ( 1) Goods which could be imported without import permit. This free list contained 175 tariff headings or subheadings, including fuel oil and lubricants; newspa- pers, books, and periodicals; scientific, laboratory, and office equipment; and various materials for the clothing industry. Maintenance spare parts for items contained in this list were also covered, unless specific import permits were required in terms of (3) below. (2) Goods for which import permits were granted on application to bona fide merchants and manufactur- ers to meet their full reasonable requirements. This list contained raw materials; plant and machinery; agricul- tural tractors; machine and hand tools; pharmaceutical products; textile piece goods other than those specified under (3) below; commercial motor vehicles; compo- nents and subassemblies for passenger cars covered by an approved manufacturing program; built-up passen- ger cars with an f.o.b. price in excess of R 1,900 and imported by private individuals for their own use; air- craft; electronic equipment; wines; ships; and "general merchandise." (3) Goods for which import permits were granted to individual importers in accordance with quotas determined from time to time. This list contained 191 tariff headings or subheadings, including fish; preserved fruits; coffee; sugar; chemicals; fertilizers; clothing; rubber; jute; woven fabrics; plastics; tools; and firearms. It also included (a) raw materials, compo- nents and spare parts, plant, and machinery and equip- ment when intended for new industries or the expan- sion of existing industries; and (b) agricultural tractors, machinery and spare parts in cases where after sales services were not adequately provided for in the Republic of South Africa. Except for the removal of some items from category (3) and the addition of the same items to category (1), the Import Control Regulations for 1971 are substan- tially identical in form and content to those for 1970. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign- ment documents (proof of importation), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transac- tion, there is no limitation on the amount; for others, authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiar- ies are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, how- ever, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferab le to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West Africa. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Afr ica may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South African Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East Africa, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visi- tors leaving South Africa within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limi- tations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reason- able amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- l a n d ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protecto- rate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must 374 be surrendered within six months from the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, residents may bring in R 20 in South African Reserve Bank notes, and non- residents R 50; however, resident and nonresident trav- elers coming from Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South African Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the author- ized banks without reference to the South African Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the pro- ceeds on maturity of government, municipal, and public utility stocks and national savings certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered contin- uously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; trans- fers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of blocked funds; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident bene- ficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three- year nonresident rand bonds (for emigrants, subscrip- tions of up to R 30,000 a family were permitted); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at official market rates in three equal annual installments, together with inter- est at 3% per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar facilities have been available through subscription to five-year transferable bonds. The South African Reserve Bank may approve trans- fers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or loan account balances or undis- tributed current profits, or for the transfer of any divi- dends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allow- ances. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval; certain types of such transfers are freely per- mitted by open general licenses. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transac- tions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South African Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are hot permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to pre- vent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South African owned or con- trolled projects are considered by the South African Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas from being used as a first step in the onward transfer of capital to other coun- tries. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South African securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand can repatriate funds from South Africa: (1) by taking up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public utility stocks, and national sav- ings certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad (at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation). Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written dec- laration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re turn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (subject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhode- sia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the arti- cles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the sell- ing price to the ultimate consignee). Furthermore, authorized dealers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its output to the Reserve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins that do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling Area countries. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1970 January 1. The simplified import control system announced in November 1969 came into effect. The new system comprised only three lists of commodities: (1) goods that could be imported without import permit (List 1); (2) goods for which permits would be granted to meet the full reasonable requirements of bona fide merchants and manufacturers (List 2 ); and (3) goods for which permits would be issued to indi- vidual importers in accordance with quotas determined from time to time (List 3). Concurrently with the sim- plification, some relaxation of import restrictions took place. Twenty commodities were added to the free list, although some other items were removed from that list to List 2. The "Restricted List" was discontinued and the consumer goods which had appeared on it were transferred to the new Lists 2 and 3. October 8. All applications for permission to pay 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution membership and application fees to religious societies abroad henceforth had to be referred to the exchange control authorities; previously, the approval authority was delegated to commercial banks. November 27. The Import Control Notice for 1971 was published. Except for the shifting of some items from List 3 to List 1, it was virtually unchanged in form and content from that for 1970. The list of com- modities which may be imported without import permit contained 180 items; 196 items could be imported only with specific permits issued under quotas determined from time to time; and all other items could be imported under permits which normally would be granted on application for imports sufficient to meet the full reasonable requirements of bona fide merchants and manufacturers. SOUTH AFRICA 376 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta or Ptas 70.00 = US$1. The official lim- its are Ptas 69.48 buying, and Ptas 70.53 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified currencies1 admitted to the exchange market vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U. S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in force in the coun try of the other currency concerned. Official buying and selling rates for these currencies are fixed daily by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute ( IEME ), acting in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the IEME, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for Moroccan dirhams. They are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and forward transactions related to com- mercial transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and Spanish Sahara constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control An interministerial commission formulates govern- ment policies on official reserve and foreign exchange operations. Controls over foreign exchange operations are administered by the Bank of Spain, in part through the Foreign Exchange Institute, which, although a sepa- rate administrative entity, is a Department within the Bank of Spain. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transaction? and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified cur- rency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral pay- lln addition to U. S. dollars, these currencies are Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. ments agreement countries 2 are made through agree- ment accounts expressed in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: exter- nal accounts in convertible pesetas, external accounts in internal pesetas, and nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that marke t; w i th authorized current and capital pay- ments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign currencies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and with receipts from the National Lottery (when evi- dence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the pur- chase of foreign currencies (including foreign bank- notes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for pay- ments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions and salaries obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transferable; with receipts from the National Lottery (when no evidence is sub- mitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); and with interest received on balances held in these accounts. They may be debited to pay the per- sonal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (staff expenses if the account is opened in the name of a company) and for the purchase of government bonds, of fixed-interest-bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corporations, and of shares quoted on the stock exchange. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not rep- resent investments for commercial, industrial, or agri- cultural purposes. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Nonresident accounts in convertible foreign curren- cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, non- resident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or 2 Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral payments agreement with Morocco requiring pay- ments between the two countries to be made in bilateral dirhams or bilateral pesetas. The payments agreement with Yugoslavia expired on January 1, 1971. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to an external account in external pesetas. Overdrafts are prohibited, except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports are admitted under the following arrange- ments: (a) free imports, (b) global quotas, (c) state trading, and (d) individual licensing. All imports require either an import license or an "import declara- tion" issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.3 All other imports require licenses. For a few commodities, import licenses are not at present being issued; these include passenger automobiles. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted up to larger amounts. With certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japan- ese origin. Licenses for specified imports from Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia are issued freely. Imports of certain agricul- tural products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feed- grains, may in fact be freely imported by private trad- ers. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled 'The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries (except the United Arab Republic) or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, mainland China, North Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal, North Viet-Nam, San Marino, Tibet, and the U. S. S. R. 378 with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of dom- iciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 100,000, provided that pay- ment is to be made within one year. All imports are subject to an advance deposit in pesetas equal to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the import transaction.4 The deposit must be lodged with the Bank of Spain prior to presenting the import decla- ration or application for import license to the Ministry of Commerce. The deposit, which bears no interest, is retained for a period of six months. It may be financed by the foreign supplier. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services transfers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued inter- est, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of sub- scription rights; the securities must have been pur- chased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and divi- dends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restriction. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; in addition, allocations of Ptas 50,000 a person a trip may be taken up, subject to the prior agreement of the IEME, once the basic allo- cation has been used up. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the IEME for additional exchange, which is granted liberally for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. 4 With effect from January 1, 1971, the scheme was extended until June 30, 1971 and the rate of deposit was reduced to 10 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Exports to all destinations of olives for oil production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. With very few exceptions, licenses for exports are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds front Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted freely, and that which exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Council of Ministers; for participation in Spanish shipping compa- nies, the former ratio is 40 per cent. Foreign invest- ment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture is free from control, provided that certain minimum conditions are met; these conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in exist- ing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the minimum conditions are not fulfilled. All invest- ment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sec- tors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sec- tors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferring currencies that are nego- tiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using conver- tible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvest- ing profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made after January 1, 1950 for the purpose of establishing, mod- ernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be SPAIN transferred freely. Transfers abroad of principal of investments made by nonresidents before January 1, 1950 are subject to prior authorization by the IEME; current policy is to approve such transfers. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services) are permitted freely. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with converti- ble pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conver- sion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares acquired after Jan- uary 1, 1950 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for further purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained from the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish com- panies and other Spanish securities acquired before January 1, 1950 may be used to purchase other Span- ish securities but may not be transferred abroad with- out prior authorization by the IEME; such authoriza- tion is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certify- ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the only require- ment for official registration of the change in owner- ship. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from external accounts in internal pesetas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties pur- chased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, pro- vided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in for- eign enterprises. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct invest- ments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to nonresi- dents require authorization by the Directorate-General 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN of Foreign Trade; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the IEME. Also, the authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the IEME. For transfers abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the IEME is allowed to import or export gold. Changes during 1970 January 1. The grace period within which importers must normally pay their suppliers was reduced from 90 days to 15 days after the due date of the declaration or import license. January 10. The IEME required import licenses and declarations to specify the date when payment was due. January 15. Decrees 79 and 81 canceled the reduc- tions in import duties and adjustment taxes granted after the 1967 devaluation. January 19. Global import quotas for 1970 were announced. Their total value exceeded by about 10 per cent that of the previous year. February 6. The bilateral payments agreement with Uruguay was terminated. March 12. An amendment to the import deposit scheme allowed nonresidents to make the deposit in convertible foreign currency provided that the c.i.f. value of the import transaction exceeded Ptas 350,000. The deposit, which could not bear interest, would be returned af ter six months in the currency in which it was made. April 30. Agreement was reached with Poland that from December 31, 1971 settlements with that country would take place in convertible currencies. 380 June 1. Decree No. 1255 of April 16 came into effect. It reorganized the system of tax rebates for exports. June 4. Decree No. 1559 consolidated and simplified the export procedures with effect from October 1; they were further modified by Decree No. 2700 of Septem- ber 12. June 15. The permitted term of suppliers' credit for imports of some liberalized commodities was temporarily reduced from 90 days to 30 days. June 29. A preferential trade agreement with the European Economic Community was signed. It came into force on October 1. September 8. Commercial banks were given increased scope for the financing of exports. October 1. Law No. 10/1970 of July 4 modified the export credit insurance system. It created a centralized export credit insurance corporation which would act as an agent for the Government. October 20. The import liberalization and global quota regimes applicable to OECD countries were extended to Uruguay. October 29. Decree No. 3153 established an inter- ministerial committee empowered to impose export duties on certain products. The purpose of the duties would be to ad just export prices to levels considered normal in the countries of destination, particularly those of the EEC. October 29. Commercial and savings banks were authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards working abroad and making deposits in convertible foreign currencies. November 4. Agreement was reached w i th the United Arab Republic that from January 1, 1971 set- tlements with that country would take place in convert- ible currencies through accounts opened by the two central banks for each other. November 12. Decree No. 3519/1970 was promul- gated. It contained new regulations for the establish- ment of an t idump ing and countervailing duties. December 18. The import deposit scheme was extended for six months with effect from Janua ry 1, 1971, when the rate of import deposit would be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. (Decree No. 3460/1970 of December 3, 1970.) December 28. The global import quotas for 1971 were published. Most were 10 per cent larger than those for 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound or LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Official rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan ( the central bank ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.8348 buying, and LSd 0.8368 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The banks' rates in dealing with the public are LSd 0.8323 buy ing for telegraphic transfers, LSd 0.8303 buy ing for mail transfers, LSd 0.8393 sell- ing for amounts up to £ stg. 10,000, and LSd 0.83906 selling for amounts over £. stg. 10,000. Official rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other cur- rencies, based on the Bank of Sudan's selling rate for sterling and the previous day's closing market quotation in London for the currency concerned. Exchange for travel purposes is subject to a surcharge of 19.65 per cent calculated on the par value; the resulting effective exchange rate is LSd 1 = US$2.40. Certain inward and outward remittances also are made at this rate. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by author- ized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics, Commerce, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sudan). Import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the frame- work of an annual foreign exchange budget that is drawn up jointly by the Bank of Sudan, the Ministry of the Treasury, and the Ministry of Economics, Com- merce, and Supply. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries x are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncommercial invisibles except those payable to the United Arab Repub l ic2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident i rThe Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslova- kia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, India, Poland, and United Arab Republic. 2 Payments to the United Arab Republic for Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies, and most proceeds from exports of invisibles to the United Arab Republic must be received in con- vertible currencies. All other payments are settled through the bilat- eral account. account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any nonresident account or in any con- vertible or ex terna l ly convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident accounts. These accounts must be credited with convertible cur- rencies. Other foreign personnel working in the Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign nationals residing in the Sudan, may ma in ta in Deposit Accounts in Sudanese pounds. Blocked Accounts are maintained by former resi- dents; earnings accruing to these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, which are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Permitted imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to licens- ing, including books, periodicals, trade samples, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the value of which does not exceed LSd 2, or, for gifts, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which comprises a number of essential goods, including raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely from any source. (3) Imports sub- ject to individual licensing; some of these are subject to quotas, and some are prohibited. Sugar is imported by a state agency only. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Eco- nomics, Commerce, and Supply and validated by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank. For goods on the open general license list, importers must register their import transactions with the Ministry of Economics, Commerce, and Supply, before entering into firm contracts with foreign suppliers; the registra- tion form must be validated by the central bank. The Ministry of Economics, Commerce, and Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an authorized bank) checks the observance of the prescription of currency requirements and the terms of payment. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Before validation is given, an advance import deposit of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be made for most private sector imports. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin of 40 to 60 per cent upon its establish- ment. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. Ceilings are currently in effect on imports of all commodities unless they are of Indian or U.A.R. origin. These may affect the operation of the licensing and validation procedures set out above. All import applications, whether for goods subject to individual licensing or under the open general license, are subject to a global monthly quota (applicable in principle to private sector imports o n l y ); applications for imports from India and the United Arab Republic are accepted even when the monthly quota has been filled. A surcharge of 15 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A stamp duty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of imports; government remittances, however, are exempt. A license fee of LSd 2 is payable on all regis- tration forms and licenses for imports valued at more than LSd 10. Payments for Invisibles Most payments of invisibles require licenses. Remit- tances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe, in addition to tu i t ion f e e s ), and for certain other purposes. Allow- ances for travel to countries other than the United Arab Republic are authorized by the Bank of Sudan at a basic rate equivalent to LSd 60 for each adult travel- ing to Western Europe, and LSd 40 for travel to other areas. Allowances for travel to the United Arab Repub- lic are the equivalent of LSd 80 for an adult, and LSd 20 a child, a year and are authorized by the com- mercial banks. In practice, allocations for exchange for travel purposes may exceed the basic allowances. Exchange for travel (other than travel for educational purposes or medical trea tmen t) must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of US$2.40 per LSd I.3 Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit foreign exchange to Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.40 may at the same rate obtain foreign exchange equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount con- verted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. The following are not 3 Travel allowances mentioned in this paragraph are expressed in pounds sterling; taking into account the exchange tax which results in the effective rate of LSd 1 = US$2.40, however, LSd 1 is equiva- lent to £- stg. 1. 382 entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement: Sudanese Government officials (other than seconded s ta f f) and students receiving educational allowances at the official rate. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide cur- rent savings to any country other than Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa; Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. Income accruing to emi- grants f rom blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. The exportation of Sudanese cur- rency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all payments for invisi- bles. The duty is LSd 10 on applications for remit- tances of profits and dividends, LSd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign exchange for busi- ness travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for other travel, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on appli- cations for remittances for other purposes; government remittances and thbse by diplomats are exempt. For certain invisible payments there may be delays in making the foreign exchange available. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. With the exception of exports to the United Arab Republic and exports of domestic products in short supply, which are subject to individ- ual licensing, exports do not require a license. Export- ers must, however, submit an export form to an authorized bank. Authorized banks may approve these fo rms only if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Banks are also held responsible for checking export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on deliv- ery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surren- der date is usually specified. All major export commod- ities are exported solely by nationalized trading corporations. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad may remit for- eign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.40. Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Sudanese cur- rency is fo rb idd en. Capital Under the Organization and Promotion of Indu s t r ial Investment Act of 1967, which superseded an earlier law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equiva- lent of LSd 1,500 to their new coun try. Upon emigra- tion from the Sudan, resident foreigners may t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for num isma t ic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reim- ported. Changes during 1970 January 20. The effective exchange rate of US$2.40 per LSd 1 was made applicable also to the conver- sion of foreign exchange transferred by Sudanese nationals working abroad. Fifty per cent of such remittances could be retransferred abroad during any one year for personal remittances, provided that the retransfer was effected at the same exchange rate. These facilities did not apply to Sudanese Government personnel (other than seconded s ta f f) or to students receiving educational allowances at the official rate. March 12. Airlines and travel agencies could not without the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department issue tickets for foreign travel to officials of the Sudanese Government, government boards, or semigovernmental units. March 15. The bonuses on cotton exports introduced on November 2, 1969 for early repatriation of exchange proceeds were terminated and export duties were raised on both long-staple and medium-staple cotton. SUDAN March 17. Authorized dealers were no longer per- m i t ted to accept sales contracts for registration, or to f r a nk export registration forms, for any kind of oil product. The regulation was revoked on November 18. April 14. A number of consumer goods were exempted from the April 7, 1969 prohibition of bank f inanc ing for spec if ied imports. April 14. The export and import of Sudanese cur- rency by trave lers was proh ib i ted. Authorized dealers were permitted to issue to departing travelers up to the equ iva lent of LSd 4 in foreign banknotes. On April 19, residents proceeding to the United A rab Republic could ob ta in up to «£ stg. 2 in Bank of Eng land bankno tes (w i t h in the LSd 4 men t ioned ). April 21. An economic integration agreement was signed w i th the Un i ted A rab Republic and the Libyan Arab Republic. April 26. The leave allowance for travel to the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic was increased from LSd 100 to <£180 a year for adults and from LSd 25 to £60 a year for children. May 14. The exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.40 was applied also to travel allowances for business trips and official travel. May 25. All banks were nationalized. In addition, two foreign-owned trading firms and a foreign distributor were nationalized. In June, a number of foreign trad ing and manufac tur ing firms were nationalized, and the operations of foreign insurance companies were sus- pended. June 5. The monthly ceiling on the issue of import licenses to the private sector was raised from LSd 4 million to LSd 5 million. June 14. A na t ional Cotton Ma rke t ing Corporation was established. June 18. Authorized dealers could accept cotton con- tracts for export registration only from nationalized trading firms. On August 12, the measure was extended to sesame seeds, groundnuts, cottonseeds, karkadeh, and castor seeds. July 1. Export duties were raised on sesame seed, cottonseed, cottonseed oil cake, sesame seed oil cake, groundnut cake, and vegetable oils. July 12. Exchange for leave travel to countries other than the United Arab Republic (the issuance of which had been suspended since October 1, 1969) was again granted; the basic rate was £60 for travel to Western Europe and <£ 40 for travel to other areas. August 2. The annual exchange allowance for leave travel to the United Arab Republic was reduced to £ 100 for adults and £ 25 for children. On Septem- 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN her 21, it was further reduced to «£ 80 for adults and £ 20 for children. September 10. The export duty on four grades of long-staple cotton was reduced. November 2. Imports purchased directly by govern- ment departments required an import license from the Ministry of Economics, Commerce, and Supply. November 9. Sales contracts for exports of gum prod- ucts from the new crop would be accepted for registra- tion only in the name of the Gum Marketing Corpora- tion. December 20. Authorized dealers accepted for registration sales contracts for the export of dura sub- mitted to them by public corporations only. December 21. The exchange allowance for pilgrim- ages was raised from LSd 75 to £100 for those travel- ing by air and from LSd 65 to £80 for those traveling by sea, subject to an overall ceiling of LSd 2 million. December 22. The Public Sector Act came into force. The activities of the public sector would be reor- ganized into six main corporations. One of these, the Trade Corporation, would, among other things, super- vise the activities of the Gum Arabic Corporation and the Cotton Marketing Corporation. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Sur- inam Guilder or Sur. f. 1.88585 = US$1. The fixed official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1; there are also fixed official buying and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.85 and Sur. f. 1.90 for U. S. banknotes. The rates for other foreign currencies * are set by the Central Bank of Surinam on the basis of the daily quotations for those currencies against the U. S. dollar in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar in Surinam. All dealings between commercial banks and the public take place at these rates, net of any commissions. There is no exchange market in Surinam. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and non- residents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic Affairs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the Ministry of Eco- nomic A f fa i r s) to issue import and export licenses, and has empowered the Central Bank of Surinam to pro- vide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current pay- ments without requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to Exchange Board approval. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without requiring the submis- sion of an exchange license by the remittor. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies2 although payments to 1 All currencies other than the Surinam guilder are considered for- eign currencies. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Jamaica dollars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U. S. dollars. and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Pay- ments to and from the U. S. S. R. must, in principle, be made through accounts in Netherlands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U. S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guil- ders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are sub- ject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks have also been granted a general license permit- ting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EEC sources for protective reasons and subject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered milk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furniture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of commodities are subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include edible vegetable oils (raw or refined), matches, prefab- ricated wooden houses, certain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane furniture. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and furniture that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for pro- tective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. :t However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Surinam, provided that they pay for their imports f rom their own foreign exchange holdings. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain serv- ices (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so f o r t h ); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinam resi- dents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the sup- port of the remitter's own family in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the desti- nation;4 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (including Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign cur- rency up to the equivalent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign bank- notes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds w i th in six months of shipment to an authorized bank. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and p l an t ing materials are granted only after favorable advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Hus- bandry, and Fishing. The export of baboonwood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regula- tions. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export pro- ceeds) . Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of the Foreign Exchange Board of Sep- tember 21, 1960 provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liqui- dation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the for- eign exchange (including loans) imported by the non- resident entrepreneur for the company's use. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on appli- cation for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, further annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of f am i ly) to transfer in foreign exchange the equiva- lent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Suri- nam accrued dur ing his period of residence; if his Suri- nam assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries 5 Surinam corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the 4 Sur. f. 1,000 for the Caribbean area and Central and South Amer- ica except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezuela; Sur. f. 500 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,000 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 1,500 for the rest of the world. 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is consid- ered that Surinam interests will benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in prin- ciple, to those undertaken for the account of the ir cus- tomers and banks are required, in principle, to surren- der to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased over foreign currency sold, but the Central Bank permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U. S. dollars corresponding to the balances in nonresident U. S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Su r . f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Su r . f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 94%,ooo. Authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artis- tic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. SURINAM Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suri- nam for num isma t ic and investment purposes; author- ized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and w i th other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses6 issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are du ty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tar iff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1970 No significant changes took place during 1970. a Import and export licenses are not required since commodities are defined so as to exclude gold. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND Exchange and Trade System Swaziland's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 — US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other cur- rencies. Swaziland does not control exchange or trade trans- actions within the common monetary and customs area comprising Swaziland, Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa. In relation to all other countries, Swaziland operates exchange control regulations similar to those of South Africa, except with regard to capital transac- tions within the Sterling Area, of which Swaziland is a member.1 In principle, payments for current transac- tions, whether within or outside the Sterling Area, while subject to control, are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital within the Sterling Area generally are permitted but require the approval of the Swazi exchange control authorities, i.e., the Ministry of Finance, while such transfers to destinations outside the 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Swaziland are not regarded as residents of South Africa. Sterling Area are severely restricted. Inward capital transfers from sources outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval, but certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Swaziland is a member of a Customs Union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa. It operates its own import licensing system, based on the South Afri- can regulations. Imports from Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa are free of license. All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Ministry of Finance. Most licenses allow the importa- tion of a range of commodities, but they are in general to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Provided that licensing regulations are respected, and subject to presentation of the necessary consignment documents to his bank, an importer is granted exchange to make the import pay- ment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Changes during 1970 March 1. A revised Customs Union Agreement with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa came into force, replacing that of 1910. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona or SKr5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U. S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the official limits of SKr5.1350 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U .S. dollar fluc- tuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of limit rates for 13 currencies,1 based upon the above limits for the U. S. dollar and the limits in force in the coun- try of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies and the U. S. dollar with the public, the authorized banks apply buying and selling rates, the average of which must lie within the established limits. The difference between the buying and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that pre- scribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any for- eign currency or Swedish kroner credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner debited to a Regu- lar Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering cur- rent payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude forward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks, or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.2 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange con- trol regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the inter- mediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market- ing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must in most cases be made by crediting kroner to a Special Account related to that country. Receipts f rom Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kroner through the Spe- cial Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Payments to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kroner to any nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Receipts from other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kroner debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kroner with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kroner Accounts for Nonresidents Dom- iciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans- fers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized pay- ments to countries other than Eastern Germany by res- idents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Neth- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, and Swiss francs. 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alternates are appointed by the Government; the other members and their alternates are appointed by the Board of Direc- tors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts w i th proceeds from sales of foreign curren- cies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresi- dents a f ter emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited w i th interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds trans- ferred f rom abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and mainte- nance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; pur- chases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts3 are held in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with author- ized paymen ts in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or f rom other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for trans- fers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other fore ign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited w i th payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for w i thdrawa ls in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia. With the main exception of a few agr icu l tural and fishery products, practically all goods are free f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan, the Bon in Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and cer- ta in other Pacific islands under U. S. control, and (2) A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, R um a n i a, the U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 Residents may also ma in ta in Foreign Exchange Accounts in for- eign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized re- ceipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized paymen ts in fore ign currencies. 390 Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports from Japan require licenses; these are in prin- ciple issued freely, except for a few specified commodi- ties. Imports from certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific license arrange- ments. Technically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individ- ual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the condi- tions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are per- mitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are consid- ered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. Life insurance prem iums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the individual approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely in respect of premiums on insurance policies contracted prior to September 1969. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, res- idents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a t r ip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swed- ish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the coun- t ry. No traveler may, however, without specific permis- sion take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swed- ish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution conform i ty w i th the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and all exports to Eastern Germany require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a noninterest-bearing fore ign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlim- ited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which for industrial- ized countries normally is granted only if the invest- ment is regarded as clearly to the benefit of the Swed- ish foreign exchange position and which may be conditional on a substantial part being financed abroad at medium term (at least five years). Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000, subject to certain limitations regard- ing the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, subject to verification by the Riksbank, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; after one calendar year (beyond the year of em igra t ion), he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets up to a limit (including the initial allocation) of SKr 1 million. Per- mission for transfers in excess of that limit is given or refused according to the merits of the application. When Swedish residents emigrate to engage abroad in activities of limited duration, applications for transfers in excess of the initial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capi- tal receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits, but in principle borrowing abroad to SWEDEN finance economic activity in Sweden is not currently authorized. The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover th e ir no rmal suppliers' credits through foreign bo r row ing. Swedish importers also can be granted per- m iss ion to take up credit abroad to finance contem- plated imports. In this context, authorized banks are upon app l ica t ion perm i t ted to extend to the foreign coun terpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit in tended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through for- eign borrow ing in a corresponding amoun t. Permission for the financing of the aforementioned export and import t ransac t ions requires that the credits conform to no rmal commercial practice. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden u sua l ly are permitted to borrow from the parent companies. Permission'is needed for the issu- ance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capi- tal market was considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require author- ization, which normally is given. Liquidation of such investments and the t rans fer of proceeds, including appreciation, require authorization, which always is given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of resi- dents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securi- ties denominated in foreign currencies with the pro- ceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include certificates or shares issued by investment companies or investments funds (mu tual fund s) and is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authoriza- tion buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies from other residents. Residents may, subject to individual license, be per- mitted to purchase abroad listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domi- ciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrok- ers may, by virtue of a general license, handle pur- chases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collec- t ions). Import licenses are normally granted to jewel- ers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles contain- ing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collec- tors or collections. Changes during 1970 February 9. The value-added tax on a number of consumer durable goods was increased from 10 per cent to 14 per cent. March 23. Transfers to nonresidents of gifts and support payments by foreign nationals permanently domiciled in Sweden, whether resident in Sweden or not, could henceforth be made up to SKr 1,000, at any time, without prior approval of the Riksbank. July 15. Authorized banks were required to submit to the Riksbank for examination any repurchases from foreign banks of banknotes of SKr 10,000. November L The value-added tax on certain con- sumer durable goods was increased from 14 per cent to 15 per cent, and that on some other items from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. (On January 1, 1971, the general rate of value-added tax was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent.) 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Administration of Control SWITZERLAND *•* The gold content of the Swiss Franc is established at 6%io (=0 .20322 . . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F4 .45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 31, 1970 was SwF4 .3162 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits wh ich result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.2 Exchange is controlled in respect of trans- actions with nine countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzer- land has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments with eight countries or monetary a reas ;3 Switzerland also con- trols its payments with one other.4 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agree- ments. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside th is sector (including those with all other coun- tries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationaliza- tion of Swiss property in the United Arab Republic, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign bank- notes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and /or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts maintained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. Outside the sector of controlled payments, certain set- tlements with Turkey are subject to special regulations. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regula- tions involving prescription of currency. Exchange Control Territory Nonresident Accounts For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory.5 * On May 9, 1971 the gold parity of the Swiss franc was changed to 4%i6 (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The National Bank's limits for the U. S. dollar were changed to Sw F 4.01 buying, and Sw F 4.16 selling, per US$1. The parity rate for the U. S. dollar was changed from Sw F 4.37282 to Sw F 4.0841 per US$1. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 The above-mentioned upper and lower limits for the U. S. dollar rate have been fixed in accordance with the European Monetary Agreement (EMA ), of which Switzerland is a member. Since all other member countries of the EMA have done likewise, correspond- ing upper and lower limits are also operative in respect of the rates for the Swiss franc in terms of the other EMA currencies. 3 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and, for certain specific payments only, with Cuba, Turkey, and the United Arab Republic. 4 Eastern Germany, including East Berlin. 5 For purposes of capital control, however, certain juridical persons or companies domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are con- sidered as nonresidents. Nonresident accounts related to the sector of con- trolled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Rumania, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentral- ized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Ger- many, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With a few excep- 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricul- tural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control reg- ulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports from all other coun- tries may be made freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; how- ever, payments to Eastern Germany (including East Berlin) and countries with which Switzerland has bilat- eral payments agreements are controlled.6 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of con- trolled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Trans- fers of capital to and from other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 10 million each, which require permission; these include foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds denominated in Swiss francs and direct participations by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Bank credits in excess of Sw F 10 million to nonresidents also are subject to approval and all pro- posed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper 6 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized prop- erty. 394 must be submitted to the National Bank for examina- tion. All bond issues in Switzerland are subject to a system of voluntary issue control. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domi- ciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in cer- tain forms are subject to customs duty (exempt are bars and certain coins) or sales tax (exempt are coins and ba rs ). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles con- taining gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1970 January. A linear 5 per cent reduction was announced in the rates of export credit guarantee that the Con- federation might grant to Swiss firms. Guarantees would also be granted more restrictively. March 1. Advance implementation took place of all remaining import tariff reductions agreed in the Ken- nedy Round. March 20. A bill was enacted which provided for the granting of political-risk and transfer guarantees to Swiss firms investing in developing countries. May 1. The leading banks suspended the issue of Swiss f ranc bonds on the Swiss capital market for the account of foreign borrowers; issues by Swiss affiliates of foreign companies were exempt. The suspension was lifted early in July. June 17. Parliament approved a bill authorizing the Federal Council to impose an export deposit require- ment. The deposit rate could reach a maximum of 5 per cent ad valorem on export proceeds of Sw F 5,000 or more. Deposits would not earn interest and would be released after at most three years. Agricultural products, investment goods, metal scrap, and gold would be exempt. The bill became law on October 1, but the Ministry of Finance announced on October 19 that the deposit scheme would not for the time being be activated. June 24. The approval criteria governing the pur- chase of land in Switzerland by foreign nationals were relaxed, with effect from January 1, 1971. July 1. The import levies on many types of feedstuffs were reduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 15. The prohibition on the export and melt- ing down of Swiss silver coins was revoked. December 18. Parliament approved an amendment to the Currency Act, which transferred the power to change the gold parity of the Swiss franc from the Par- liament to the Cabinet, acting in close consultation with the Swiss National Bank. The bill became law on April 1, 1971. The bill also abolished the legal tender status of Swiss gold coins. SWITZERLAND 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" market with a fluc- tuating rate. There are fixed official rates of LS 3.80 buying, and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1; official market rates for other currencies are quoted by the Exchange Office on the basis of the fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in international centers. The free market rates on Decem- ber 31, 1970 were LS 4.30 buying, and LS 4.32 selling, per US$1. In practice, the free market rate for the U.S. dollar is set by the Commercial Bank of Syria in consultation with the Central Bank. The supply in the official market consists mainly of the proceeds of major exports and of pipeline royalties received by the Government. The official market rate applies to all major exports;x to imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital equip- ment for Syrian industries; to invisibles related to trade settled through the official market, most remittances for study abroad, and remittances for servicing government debt; and to capital transactions by the Government. The free market rate applies to all other transactions, including most exports of processed or manufactured goods, all merchanting trade, and imports by parcel post. Moreover, importers with bills overdue for any period of time are usually permitted to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. All imports are payable through the free market when shipped from Cyprus, the Gulf States, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, or Lebanon, but originating elsewhere. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commis- sion of %o of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of for- eign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administra- tive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transac- tions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the 1 Crude petroleum, mineral oils, asphalt, raw and tanned leather, wood, iron and steel scrap, copper scrap, cotton yarn, wheat, barley, corn millet, chick-peas, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, cotton oil, cot- tonseed, cotton cake, sorghum, corn, sesame, tobacco, wheat flour, oleaginous grains and fruits, olive oil, peanut oil, linseed oil, sugar, and certain other agricultural products. 396 Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for import payments through the official market, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one author- ized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria. Imports and foreign payments are licensed within the frame- work of an annual foreign exchange budget, which includes an import program. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements 2 be obtained in the cur- rency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" currency,3 or in any other con- vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, the Gulf States, Iran, Kuwait, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 4 and may be credited with the pro- ceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Residents and nonresi- dents may also keep accounts in foreign currencies in the Syrian Arab Republic, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital; transfers abroad from 2 Bulgaria, Ceylon, mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, No r th Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, United Arab Republic, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 4 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution these accounts are made freely. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Per- mitted credits include the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in through the parallel market and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local expenditures are com- pletely free, and debits for certain expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rhode- sia, or South A f r ica are prohibited. Many basic com- modities ( inc lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and agricultural machinery) are imported on ly by state trading agencies (including the successor organizations to SIMEX, particularly the General Organization for Trade and Artisan Products —GOTA) or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports of some other commodities are reserved for "unions of industries." Most private sector imports are governed by a foreign exchange budget (Order No. 188), which is applicable to all countries except Iraq. Imports are divided into three main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises some 100 tariff items—mostly goods that are produced domestically, inc lud ing some textile products; (2) imports on a Suspended List, which comprises some 300 tariff items of less essential goods which are tem- porarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and which are authorized in accordance with the foreign exchange budget. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in payments agreement countries through compensation transactions involving the export of Syrian industrial or mineral products. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the interme- diary of any firm conducting a business established out- side the Syrian Arab Republic; the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. All commodities that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported from the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, or the United States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the quality higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders.5 The state trading agen- 5 In January 1971, Syrian residents holding funds abroad were per- mitted to use these for imports. SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC cies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. Goods included in the Suspended List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special individual license from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Pro- hibited Lists) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Republic are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian Arab Republic with some of these countries. These imports include all agricultural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are neither prohibited nor suspended are permitted without a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less and that the recipient is employed in the public sector. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a con- sumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the tar iff, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the tariff, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian harbors), and (6) an ocean tax of %o of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Exchange licenses are required to make import pay- ments through the official market. Payments for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time drafts, bills for collection, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. In the case of import payments subject to the official exchange market, the Commercial Bank of Syria submits both documents to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted or refused according to the availability of exchange. In the case of import payments through the free exchange market, the Exchange Office currently does not require the Commercial Bank to request approval. After approval is granted (where necessary), the Commercial Bank of Syria opens the letters of 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC credit or accepts the bills for collection. Specified imports, mainly essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital goods for Syrian industries may be financed through the official ma rke t ;6 all others must be financed through the free market. Import licenses prescribe which exchange market must be used. However, the Exchange Office has the authority to pre- scribe the use of free market exchange even when the import license specifies payment through the official market. Importers with overdue bills are currently per- mitted, subject to approval by the Administrative Com- mittee of the Exchange Office, to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided more promptly than for the latter. The issu- ance of authorizations for the purchase of official market exchange for certain categories of imports is delayed for periods of several months. For imports financed through the free market, exchange is provided with less delay. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate, for servicing government debt, and for most study a b r o a d7 may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonresident interme- diaries are nontransferable and payable in Syrian pounds only. The insurance for imports under docu- men ta ry credit must be effected locally. All other pay- ments for invisibles must be made through the free market. Residents traveling abroad may take with them for- eign exchange purchased at the free market rate as fol- lows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tun is ia ), the equiv- alent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned. Travelers to Iraq, Jordan, and other countries of the Arab Common Market may, instead of taking up the above-mentioned travel alloca- tions in foreign currency, export Syrian currency up to the amount of the allowance to which they are entitled. 6 All commodities are payable at the free market rate when shipped from Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, or the Gulf States, but originating elsewhere. 7 Remittances to students in Lebanon studying nonscientific subjects are made at the free market rate. 398 Upon departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of cer- tain other commodities are also reserved for govern- ment agencies, state trading agencies, or specified com- panies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Exchange Office within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of all major exports (see footnote 1) must be surrendered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale at the free market rate. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12^2 per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valo- rem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expenditures of oil companies (but not royalties), may be sold in the free market. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in un l im i ted foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents, and may be effected through the f ree market. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office; if approved, it must be effected through the free market. Special facilities for invest- ment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree No. 348 of Decem- ber 29, 1969. Other facilities permitting residents and nonresidents of any nationality to open foreign currency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic with imported funds are based on Decree No. 779 of April 1, 1970 and Order No. 191 of April 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions or s taff. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with world free market prices. Imports and exports of gold are free from import or export licensing. Import payments, however, require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1970 January 1. Bilateral payments agreements with North Korea and North Viet-Nam came into effect. January 1. Decree No. 2804 of December 17, 1969 came into force. It revised the structure and greatly widened the functions of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. January 3. Order No. 3 reserved the import of auto- mobiles to Aphtomachine. January 21. Order No. 27 reserved the import of motorcycles to Aphtomachine. February. The exchange rates in the parallel market were pegged at LS 4.30 buying and LS 4.32 selling per U .S. dollar. April 1. Decree No. 779 permitted resident and non- resident physical and juridical persons, whether of Syrian or foreign nationality, to open interest-bearing accounts denominated in foreign currency with banks in the Syrian Arab Republic, provided that the funds in question arose from transactions or activities under- taken outside the Syrian Arab Republic and that their transfer to the Republic was not required by the exist- ing exchange control regulations. These funds, together SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC with any interest accrued, could at any time be trans- ferred abroad w i thout the prior or subsequent approval of the Exchange Office; they could also be used to f inance foreign trade, provided that any imports so financed were in accordance w i th the import regula- tions. April 2. The issuance of import licenses was restricted pending the announcement of the foreign exchange budget for 1970. April 2. Order No. 148 canceled, with minor excep- tions, all existing import licenses issued to the private sector. April 2. Order No. 146 provided that parcel post imports of prohibited or suspended items by the private sector could only be made for personal use and could not exceed LS 50 per annum per person. Previously, parcel post imports of such items by traders had been permitted up to the value of LS 6,000 a year, and those by private individuals were in effect unrestricted, provided that the value of each parcel did not exceed LS 100. In June, the parcel post facility was fu r ther restricted to parcels valued at LS 250 or less for the public sector only. April 2. Decree No. 57 created a Ministerial Com- mission to which applications for import licenses must be submitted. April 21. By Order No. 187, imports of commodities under 38 ta r i ff items were suspended. These included air conditioning units, record players, various other domestic appliances, and various items of clothing. April 21. The 1970 foreign exchange budget issued by Order No. 188 set import quotas for more than 300 essential and less essential commodities. These quotas were applicable for the entire year 1970; if any imports of any particular quota item had already taken place, permissible imports during the rest of the year were reduced correspondingly. Thus, some items were in fact suspended. Private sector imports outside this budget would not normally be permitted, except under the parcel post regime. (Previous foreign exchange budgets had not included individual commodity quotas; the present one was the first comprehensive foreign exchange budget.) April 23. Order No. 191 for the implementation of Decree No. 779 was issued. Among other things, it provided that the foreign currency accounts mentioned in Decree No. 779 could be credited with bank trans- fers, foreign banknotes declared to the customs, checks and travelers checks issued abroad, and any other means of payment that the Exchange Office might approve. Balances could freely be sold to local banks at the parallel market rate. Interest was payable in foreign currency at levels ruling in world money markets. Non- residents of Arab or foreign nationality opening such 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC accounts would not have to explain the origin of the foreign funds concerned, but residents, irrespective of nationality, would, and Syrian nationals resident abroad would be required to document their residence and activities or their foreign assets and earnings. The Order and Decree were not applicable to Arab or for- eign diplomatic or consular missions or their members, nor to international organizations and their members; all of these remained entitled under Order No. 829 of November 5, 1966 to retain 50 per cent of any foreign exchange remitted to them. Also excluded from the new arrangements were funds transferred through clearing accounts. June 6. Order No. 254 amended Order No. 188 (the foreign exchange budget). Annex 1 listed the items whose quotas had been filled and for which no further licenses would be issued in 1970. Annex 2 listed cer- tain commodities whose quotas were being increased and other commodities for which, although they had not been included in the foreign exchange budget, licenses would be issued in specified ratios to their 1969 imports. August 5. Legislative Decree No. 147 of July 20 came into force. It created a Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. October 11. Order No. 465 excepted commodities imported from Iraq from the quota limitations imposed by the foreign exchange budget contained in Order No. 188. November 26. The restrictions on transit trade between neighboring Arab countries through Syrian ter- ritory were revoked. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Tanzan ia Sh i l l ing or TSh7 .14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Tanzania shilling and the pound sterling at <£! = T Sh 17.1429. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government in sterling at this parity rate. In transactions with authorized banks, the Bank of Tanzania stands ready to issue Tanzania shillings in exchange for convertible currencies and to supply such currencies in exchange for Tanzania shillings; its buying and selling rates for sterling in such transactions differ from the rate of £1 =T S hi 7.1429 by y32 and Vic per cent, respec- tively. The Bank of Tanzania also quotes buy ing and selling rates for U. S. dollars and certain other non- Sterling Area currencies.2 In transactions with the public the authorized banks buy and sell sterling at rates d iffer ing f rom the rate of £1 = T Sh 17.1429 by •Tie and l/2 per cent, respectively. Their buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on these rates for sterling and the rates in the London market. The Bank of Tanzan ia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except Uganda bankno tes) against Tanzania shillings at par. East Afr ican shillings, which have ceased to be legal tender, may still be exchanged at par by holders in Tanzania at all commercial banks. The authorized banks carry out forward exchange contracts with importers and exporters. Such contracts for periods exceeding three months require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. The authorized banks may cover their net forward position w i th the Bank of Tanzania. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Uganda is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the authorized banks. Payments from Tanzania to Kenya and Uganda are free of restrictions. On the mainland, import and export control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Industries. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for most commodities, however, must be submitted through the State Trading Corporation or require the endorsement of another state trad ing agency. Zanzibar administers an independ- ent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by state trading agencies (B i z an je and the Zanzibar State Trad ing Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling Area and ma in ta ins prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settlements with Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzania shillings. Payments to res- idents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency ;3 receipts from such countries must be obtained in Tanzania shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanza- nia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings to the credit of an External Account in Tanza- nia, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings from an Exter- nal Account in Tanzania, or in any other specified currency 4 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Remit- tances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzania or by the East African Community organiza- tions. 1This description presents the position on December 31, 1970. However, on March 17, 1971, the following measures went into effect. The exchange controls in force at the time were extended to Kenya and Uganda. The import and export of Tanzania currency by travelers was banned. Residents were required to declare all assets they held outside Tanzania; provided that such declaration was made before May 1, 1971, they could retain these assets. 2 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Danish kroner, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 With the further exception that personal remittances to residents of India and Pakistan must be made in the currency of the benefici- ary 's country of residence. 4 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Ceylon rupees, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic krdnur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tan- zania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all author- ized payments to such Sterling Area countries by resi- dents of Tanzania, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda shillings) by residents of any other coun- try in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tanzanian residents, for payments to resi- dents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzania, for pur- chases of any Sterling Area currency, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Ster- ling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exception- ally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzania of any non-Sterling Area cur- rency from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) by nonresidents of the Ster- ling Area to authorized dealers. Provided that the per- mission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area cur- rencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances on Blocked Accounts belonging to emigrants may be used for the purchase in Tanzania of government bonds payable in Tanzania shillings and redeemable not earlier than five years from the date of acquisition; interest and redemption proceeds are trans- 402 ferable. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Most imports from Kenya and Uganda are unrestricted but some require a specific license (goods listed in the Fifth Schedule to the Open General License) and others can only be imported from Kenya and Uganda by the State Trading Corporation and persons acting as agents for the Corporation (goods listed in the Second and Third Schedules, respectively). Specific import licenses are required for many commodities or groups of commodi- ties (listed in the Fourth Schedule to the Open General License) from First Schedule countries, i.e., Common- wealth countries (other than Kenya and Uganda), GATT member countries except Japan, and countries with which trade agreements are in force ;5 other goods from these countries may be imported without licenses. All imports from other countries, including Japan, require a specific license. All imports to the mainland from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports from South Africa, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese consumer goods are licensed up to a certain proportion of the value of total exports to that country. Applications to import most goods originating out- side Kenya and Uganda must be submitted through the State Trading Corporation and these may be imported only by or through that Corporation. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufac- tured goods when imported from and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and origi- nate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at 10 per cent, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is pro- vided automatically by an authorized bank upon appli- cation and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments more than six months in advance of shipment, as well as most imports financed by sup- 5 Bulgaria, Burundi, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, U. S. S. R., and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pliers' credit, approval. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of cur- rent payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in fact unrestricted. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens work- ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventu- ally may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33% per cent of their monthly salary uncommitted to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33% per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are consid- ered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). There is a basic allowance for travel to countries outside the Scheduled Territories6 of TSh 4,000 a person every 3 years for persons aged 12 or older; half of this amount is available to children aged 3 to 12 years. Requests for additional amounts are examined on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Travelers to destinations in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, and Zambia are restricted to T Sh 1,000 a year. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya or Tanzania currency. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Uganda may take out up to TSh 250 in such currencies. Nonresident travelers may take out travelers checks or letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa, Portugal, all Portuguese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected in specified cur- rencies (see footnote 4) within six months from the date of exportation and must be surrendered. •Tanzania's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Ter- ritories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. require individual exchange control Proceeds from Invisibles TANZANIA Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 4) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya and Tanzania shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are subject to control by the Bank of Tan- zania and are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital trans- fers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility of making uncommitted remittances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of TSh 50,000 for each household if they take up residence in any country other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be cred- ited to a Blocked Account or otherwise brought under control; they may then be invested in approved Tan- zanian securities or placed on bank deposit. Income from such investments is transferable upon accrual, and redemption proceeds become transferable upon matu- rity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. Furthermore, any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 50,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any remaining amount will be consid- ered for repatriation. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- tion) Act, 1963. Applications for certificates are proc- essed by the Tanzania Investment and Industrial Pro- motion Committee, whose secretariat is established in the Ministry of Commerce and Industries. In respect of large investments, the Committee usually requires majority participation by Tanzanian capital. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of produc- tion require approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as may be the proceeds of disinvestment. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanza- nia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and industrial and professional users. Changes during 1970 During the year, a considerable number of commodi- ties were added to those subject to individual import license when originating from countries other than Kenya and Uganda. January 1. The import monopoly of the State Trad- ing Corporation was extended to butter, cheese, paper, sewing machines, and various textile goods. January 1. A new customs tariff came into force. It provided for the eventual application of preferential import duties to goods of EEC origin. February 5. It was announced that all external and wholesale trade would be confined to parastatal organi- zations by the end of 1970. A National Development Corporation would be created to ensure the distribution of imported goods. March 1. A large number of commodities were made subject to specific import license and these could only be imported by or through the State Trading Cor- poration. May 1. Imports of all fertilizers required a specific license and could only be made by or through the National Development Corporation. May 4. Dealings by authorized banks in Uganda cur- rency notes and coins were suspended. May 5. Authorized banks were permitted to accept Uganda currency up to U Sh 250 a person from travel- ers who could prove they had recently been in Uganda. This permission was revoked on August 31. May 5. The Bank of Tanzania requested all banks and nonbank residents to present for exchange into Tanzania shillings at par any Uganda currency they held. The Bank of Tanzania discontinued this exchange on May 18. June 24. Transfer taxes were imposed on imports f rom Kenya and Uganda of additional manufactured goods. August 12. The import monopoly of the State Trad- ing Corporation was extended to a fur ther 120 items. October 16. Government Notice No. 270 extended the import monopoly of the State Trading Corporation to include all goods listed in the second schedule to the Open General License, 1968. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht or B 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U. S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transac- tions and other current payments). As at December 31, 1970, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U. S. dollars were B 20.875 buying, and B 20.90 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.855 buying, and B 21.00 selling, per US$1. The authorized banks' rates for sterling are based on their buying and selling rates for the U. S. dollar and the New York rates for sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and author- ized companies) and to authorized persons. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign coun- tries; payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U. S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans- ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic enti- ties, international organizations stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may freely be credited with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transferable Accounts, and with funds eli- gible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Bal- ances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrat- ing residents of Thai nationality, and funds that cannot be identified as eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital trans- fer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely; but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from main- land China or Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except mainland China and Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by author- ized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance pay- ments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addi- tion to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through cus- toms; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company .registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family mainte- nance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND US$140. For foreign travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain maximum limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$630, or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi- tional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for enter- tainment expenses. The amount of foreign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for family remittances is US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for each trans- feror for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one pass- port) or foreign currency exceeding US$140 (US$280 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Per- sons in transit may take out foreign currency in an amount not exceeding that which they brought in, after deduction of a reasonable amount of expenditure incurred locally. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of paddy and rice bran are prohibited and all exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an individ- ual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other com- modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for ship- ments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station, and, with minor excep- tions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents w i th in 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place w i th in 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance b i l l, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Tourists require a "certificate of exportation" to take out precious stones and gold or platinum jewe lry other than personal effects with a total value in excess of B 50,000 or other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of rice and rice products is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. 1 Gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified an- imals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most fo rms of iron other than iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. 406 Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by resi- dents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the pur- pose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign invest- ments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of Feb- ruary 10, 1962; this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capi- tal repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is nor- mally granted if it can be shown that the funds origi- nated abroad. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The public sector requires the approval of the National Economic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the fo l low ing arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports; the quota for the two-year period beginning February 4, 1971 is 480,000 troy ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer o f fe r ing the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par vajue. Exports of gold bullion are pro- hibited, while those of gold ornaments, when not made by tourists and exceeding B 10,000 in value, require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution export du ty or taxes. Tourists may without a certificate of exportation take out gold ornaments up to a value of B 50,000. The conveyance of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1970 January 1. A quota of 240,000 troy ounces went into effect for gold imports during the calendar year 1970. January 6. Certain raw materials for fertilizer pro- duction required an import license. February 25. The existing permission to authorized banks to open foreign currency deposit accounts with- out having to apply for prior approval from the exchange control authorities was extended to include deposits of foreign nationals on temporary assignment in Thailand who have transferred their deposits from abroad and foreign nationals transferring their funds previously deposited w i th the Military Finance Facilities in Thailand. March 5. Exports of all types of sugar required a license. March 8. The export premium (export tax) on gluti- nous rice was suspended. The suspension was extended on May 31 until September 30, and then until Decem- ber 31, 1970. March 11. Special rebates amounting to 25 per cent of the applicable rice export premium were granted for most exports of rice in larger quantities. On May 12, the facility was extended to smaller shipments. April 4. Exports of semimanufactured aluminum and aluminum scrap required a license. April 30. The period within which export proceeds must be surrendered was lengthened from 90 days to THAILAND 180 days a f ter shipment, except for sales on a consign- ment basis. On May 7, the measure was extended to consignment sales. June 2. Additional documentation had to be submit- ted to authorized banks to obtain their approval for cer ta in ou twa rd remittances by insurance companies. July 1. Import duties were raised on commodities covered by over 200 tariff positions, including passen- ger au tomob i les and many other consumer durable goods, wh i le duties on certain essential imports were reduced. Sales taxes, excise taxes, and business taxes on many imports were increased. August 17. The proceeds from exports of rice and rice flour in shipments not exceeding B 10,000 became exempt from surrender. September 9. Certain types of k r a ft paper required an import license. October 8. Certain automobile tires and certain iron or steel d rums no longer required an import license. November 1. The 25 per cent rebate on export p rem iums on rice was continued. The suspension of the export premium on glutinous rice also was continued and th is suspension was extended to glutinous rice flour and rice vermicelli. November 2. Export restrictions on pig iron and cer- ta in aluminum rod were eased. November 4. Imports of fuel oil required a license. December 30. Export control was removed over (1) tin ore, iron ore, wolfram, antimony, lead ore, lead, and zinc; (2) any elements composed of columbium, tantalum, thorium, or other radioactive ma ter ia l; and (3) salt. Import control was removed over (1) wol- f ram ore and (2) tin ore and tin metal in all forms. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0 . 02 French franc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries (except the French Territory of the Afars and Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign coun- tries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the coun- tries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Planning, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the solicit- ing of funds in Togo for placement in foreign coun- tries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Tourism, except those for gold, 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 408 which are granted by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Planning. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settle- ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for credits to accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of Portuguese or South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authoriza- tion of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism. Imports from all other countries require indi- v idual import licenses. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a joint French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are gran ted. There are no formal import free lists. The' issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional on the purchase of a quan t i ty of the local product equal to the quantity to be imported. All import transactions relating to foreign countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 125,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- men ta ry credit is opened or eight days before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- men ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted f ree ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a year for each person (CFAF 37,500 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified coun tr ies2 or CFAF 15,000 a day, s u b j e c t^ to a maximum of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other coun- tries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Resident travelers must have their pur- chases and sales of foreign currency marked in a per- sonal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; the former amount is 2 Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. TOGO adjusted for any foreign currency acquired in Togo by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency and for any repurchases of foreign currency up to CFAF 25,000 w i th CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portugal and South Afr ica are prohibited. OPAT (Office des pro- d u i ts agricoles du Togo) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain o ther commodities. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; authorized dia- mond purchasing offices, however, may retain such for- eign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintain- ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must within eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks they bring in. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions them- 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities and those over the soliciting of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. There also are special controls applica- ble to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investment abroad by residents of Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Togo4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the post- ponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale, of for- eign securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; ( 3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance works abroad or by international merchanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 4 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 410 not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans con- stituting a direct investment, loans taken up by author- ized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accord- ance with their importance to the economic develop- ment of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agree- ment (convention d'etablissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guaran- tee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a maximum weight to be announced by the Minister of Finance. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 February 17. Circular No. 5 was issued concerning the issuance and utilization of cornets de change in 1970. February 28. Circular No. 8 replaced Circular No. 2 of February 5, 1969. Departing nonresident travelers could reconvert BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution into foreign banknotes. The tourist travel allocation was maintained at CFAF 50,000 a person a year; the special allocation for business travel also was unchanged. The use of credit cards abroad was prohib- ited. February 28. Order No. 56 replaced Order No. 23 of January 24, 1969. New definitions were provided of resident and nonresident travelers. The allocations for tourist and business travel were identical with those in Circular No. 8. Applications for travel exchange could not be made more than one month before departure. The provisions concerning the export by nonresident travelers of foreign and other means of payment were revised. (The Order was amended and completed by Order No. 93 of March 23.) June 15. Circular No. 12 provided regulations for the implementation of Decree No. 69-232 of Decem- ber 5, 1969 concerning foreign investment and borrow- ing abroad; these included the conditions that borrowing had to meet in order to be exempt from prior approval. June 15. Order No. 256 and Circular No. 11 bis increased the allocation for tourist travel to foreign TOGO countries from the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 75,000 a person a year. The entire tourist alloca- tion could henceforth be taken out in the form of for- eign banknotes (previously up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). July 9. The value beyond which import transactions relating to foreign countries are required to be domi- ciled with an authorized bank was increased from CFAF 20,000 to CFAF 125,000 by Circular No. 13. August 6. Circular No. 16 regulated the methods of payment for imports from foreign countries valued at CFAF 125,000 or less. September 2. Order No. 380 and Circular No. 17 permitted Foreign Accounts in Francs to be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency at Lome by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. October 13. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to banks. The banks' reporting requirements with respect to their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1, 3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar or TT$2.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago main- tains a fixed official relationship with sterling of TT$4.80 = £1. Sterling exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above, and these as well as transactions in foreign cur- rencies are subject to exchange charges up to a maxi- mum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates are % of 1 per cent on outward trans- fers and nil on inward transfers. All other exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. Sterling exchange transactions through commercial banks are at present subject to varying exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = £1 and EC$4.80 = £1 (see below) and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and VIQ of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers of £50,000 or more. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their closing quotations of the previous day in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or minus the above charges. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority (East Caribbean dollars) and the central banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrange- ment with the monetary authorities in those areas the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities at par and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to notes of the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = £1.1 This corresponds to a relationship to the U. S. dollar of EC$2.00 - US$1. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Central Bank acting as agent for the Government; for payments for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds from exports, by the Ministry of Finance through its Customs and Excise Division. For payments 1 The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, pursuant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary unit of Antigua, Barbados, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Grenada; there are no restrictions on the movement of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. 412 relating to certain specified invisibles, authority is dele- gated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compul- sory surrender of foreign cu r rency2 and for control over both current and capital transactions.3 All over- seas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the gran t ing of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resi- dent banks to nonresidents and local nonresident- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency require- ments similar in certain respects to those of the United Kingdom, although South Africa has been excluded from Trinidad and Tobago's definition of the Sterling Area and all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. Settle- ments with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling f rom an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency.4 Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: Ster- l ing Area Accounts, External Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all cur- rencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered fore ign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be gran ted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of cred- its and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dol- la rs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands . guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sterling Area Accounts may be opened by commer- cial banks for residents of the Sterling Area who are resident outside Trinidad and Tobago. They may be credited, inter alia, with authorized payments to any Sterling Area country (except South Afr ica). External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange con- trol authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for imports from South Africa. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Albania, Bulgaria, main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom but excepting Rhodesia and South Africa. The import regulations include prohibition or strin- gent control, state trading, individual licensing, and open general license. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling devices, beer in containers other than ten ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Fire- arms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana under government contracts, at agreed prices/' (3) All commodities other than those specified under ( 1) and (2) above, are imported under either an individual license or an open general license arrange- ment. As indicated below, the scope of the arrange- ment depends on the countries from which the com- modities are imported. (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, and the U.S.S.R. All imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted freely for imports from Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugosla- via of commodities not on the "negative" list men- tioned under (b) below. For the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhode- sia and South Africa. For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within the Caribbean Free Trade Association '(CARIFTA), of which Trinidad and Tobago is a member.) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no dis- crimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, with the exception that CARIFTA commitments are taken into account. Payments for all imports require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are com- plied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under 3 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan- nels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of <£10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. Exports of certain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, ani- mals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products pro- duced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit pe tro leum companies to export without spe- cific licenses. Export proceeds received in fore ign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate for- eign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom cu r rent invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign cur- rency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their ex- change transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of <£10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital t rans fe rs f rom Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances 414 (in limited amoun ts), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized deposito- ries have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is per- mitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the full proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trini- dad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irre- deemable or not redeemable within five years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pros- pective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any currency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment), or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justified in terms of other benefits to the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incen- tive legislation designed to attract domestic and fore ign inves tment in m anu f a c tu r ing and impor t-subs t i tu t ing indu s t ry. This provides for the g ran t ing of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer indus- tries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not be ing conducted on a commercial scale, or any indus try for which there are favorable prospects for fu tu re development. Every pioneer manu fac tu rer is entitled to temporary relief f rom import du t ies and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and Tobago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The inves tment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the fo l low ing ways: in foreign currency (including sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions. (a) The right will not normally apply to the pur- chase of shares on a stock exchange unless this pur- chase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident-controlled local com- panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Gold Gold is defined by the Defence (Finance) Regula- tions, 1942 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and per- missions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the M in i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Impo r ts of gold j ew e l ry are on open general license, but im p o r ts of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific impo rt l icenses issued by the M in is try of Indus- try and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and au thor- ized indu s t r ial users. Exports of gold, whe ther jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce; such licenses for gold o ther t h an jewe l ry are not nor- m a l ly gran ted except to the monetary authorities. Impo r ts of u n r e f i n ed gold are subject to import du ty at 5 per cent (p re fe ren t ial du ty) or 15 per cent (general d u t y ), and those of p a r t ly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential du ty) or 25 per cent (general du ty ). They are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1970 Du r ing the year a number of 'commodities were added to those requ ir ing a specific import license. March 1. Bank credit to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms was restricted to the amounts outstanding at each bank on February 28. The Central Bank's directive was subse- quen t ly amended so as to exempt persons and firms resident in CARIFTA countries. On July 15, the directive was further amended so as to relate to amounts out- standing in the period May through Ju ly 1970. May 19. The exchange control regulations, which for- merly applied to non-Sterling Area currencies only, were applied to Sterling Area currencies as well. Capi- tal t ran s fe rs to Sterling Area countries were restricted. July 1. The Government acquired a major foreign- owned bank operating in Trinidad and Tobago. July 21. The Exchange Control Act, 1970 was enacted. The Defence (Finance) Regulations (Re-enact- ment and Validation) Ordinance, 1959 was repealed, except that Regulation 6 (concerning the control of capital issues) of the Defence (Finance) Regulation, 1942 remained in force. The new act treated Sterling Area currencies as foreign currencies and thus provided that the exchange control regulations were applicable to all countries other than Trinidad and Tobago. By the end of the year, however, the Act had not yet been proclaimed. September 14. The .exchange charge on outward trans- fers was increased from % of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar or D 1 = US$1.90476. Buying and sell- ing rates for the French franc and certain other con- vertible currencies *• are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. The buying and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Cen- tral Bank. The rate for the U.S. dollar for settle- ments under bilateral payments agreements is D 0.525 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Suppliers' credits are screened by the Directorate-General of External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. In 1970, both exchange control and import licensing were conducted within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget; there is no formal budget of this kind for 1971. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is part of the French Franc Area. For pay- ment purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries;2 (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements (Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U. S. S. R., and the United Arab Repub l ic); and (3) the area of convertibil- ity, comprising all other countries.3 Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area; w i th countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria (but see be low ), Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the United Arab Republic, in Tunisian dinars with the U. S. S. R., and in Swiss agree- ment francs with mainland China; and with countries in the area of convertibility, generally in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must normally be made, in accordance with the foregoing, on the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Libyan pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 France, the 14 countries whose institutes of issue maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury, and Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. 3 The foreign area comprises the countries under (2) and (3 ). 416 basis of the country of origin; however, all imports shipped from other countries of the French Franc Area, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in French francs. Certain commercial transactions with Bulgaria and India must be settled in Indian rupees. Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French francs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies (see footnote 1 ); with transfers from other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely w i th French francs transferred by a nonresident to the account holder; with proceeds in French francs from sales to the Central Bank of con- vertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payable either in French francs or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are staying temporar- ily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies; w i th t rans fe rs from other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash d is tr ibu t ions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds from sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repayments of loans granted from the same account. They may be debited freely for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his f am i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for purchases in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchases, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for author- ized imports f rom these countries and with proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from sales to the Central Bank of convertible curren- cies. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and f rom these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these countries, with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with trans- fers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of Tunisia. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used ma in ly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any coun try (including countries of the French Franc A rea ). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresi- dent of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets, with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guarantee, and with any assets in excess of bank bal- ances up to D 3,500 owned by foreign nationals leaving Tunisia permanently. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settle- ment of expenses arising in connection with the admin- istration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the initial account holder; taxes payable by the account holder; and the granting of credits to residents. Accounts held by residents of coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., debits resulting from the purchase of business concerns or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange and all credits not relating to real estate transactions) require the authorization of TUNISIA the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of conver t ib i l i ty, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first- mentioned group to those in other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended ma in ly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and ga in fu l ly employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of cred- iting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other nonresident accounts either in accordance with a general or an individual license of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Sus- pense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of pur- chases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settle- ment of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (provided that he is a resident of the French Franc Area) or his family up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one family. All other debits to these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank of Tuni- sia. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian nationals who are working abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of a portion of the holder's foreign currency earnings. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods corresponding to some 90 tariff items from any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc Area) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. All imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All import contracts must, before signing, be submitted for prior approval (avis technique) to the competent government agency, the Service de la Tutelle. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for all imports, irrespective of origin, that are financed with suppliers' credit. Import licenses are required for all imports except liberalized commodities imported from the French Franc Area; for the latter, only a transfer authorization from the Central Bank is required. Licenses are issued within the framework of a "general import program" for the cal- endar year. Licenses are of two kinds: import authori- zation (autorisation d"importation) for goods shipped from the French Franc Area, and import license 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (licence cTimportation) for goods shipped from a coun- try outside the French Franc Area. Certain commodities are imported under state trad- ing. These include goods subject to government monop- olies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports from the United States under U.S. P.L. 480. In addi- tion, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, speci- fied fruits, etc.). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associa- tions and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. Apart from the "prohibited" imports, imports origi- nating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licen- ses. The following, which may be subject to quantitative restrictions, require individual import licenses, how- ever: (1) imports of some 25 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas appli- cable to all countries, (2) imports of commodities for which bilateral quotas have been established for France, and ( 3) imports from France of goods listed in Notice No. 107 of December 9, 1969 (i.e., goods of Lists 3, 4, and 5 of Annex 3 to the Agreement of Association with the EEC) and of goods for which global quotas for EEC countries have been established. Payments for nonliberalized imports from France or other countries of the French Franc Area must have prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank; a payments application must be submitted through an authorized bank before purchase contracts are entered into. In principle such authorization (autorisation de transfert, modele X2) is always granted. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area finan- cial resources which could be used for this purpose. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods from coun- tries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the competent ministry; the prior approval (visa) of the Central Bank is required for making the corresponding import payment. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to countries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liber- alized goods, for which licenses, in principle, are granted automatically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported from any country; (3) goods subject to global quotas valid for EEC countries 418 only; and (4) goods admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agreements.4 The free list does not apply to payments agreement countries. Under an "urgency procedure," imports from any source of cer- tain spare parts and some other items by holders of an "importer's card" are free of license up to D 500 a year for each importer. All imports from countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation trans- actions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import docu- ments involving payments must be domiciled (regis- tered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 10, 15, and 20 per cent apply to 300 tariff items; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and Pharmaceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Provided that appropriate documentation is submitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remittances of profits, dividends, and interest due to nonresidents. Payments for such items as busi- ness travel and family maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel and publicity expenditures abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary, sub- ject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their family lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their fam i ly with them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50 (D 25 for chil- dren under t en ). The allocation may be taken in the form of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign bank- notes is subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. The reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to D 20 at the airport, but the 4 The countries involved include most European OECD countries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements are in force (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank may grant prior approval to convert a larger amount on departure. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and liberalized exports not exceed- ing D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin and the export of cereals is the monopoly of the Office des Cereales. The export of olive oil also is a monopoly. For all exports, exporters must give an under tak ing to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repa tr ia t ion must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date pay- ment is due, and, in any event, w i th in 100 days from the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depend- ing on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used freely for business travel and publicity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of salt and cork, and a tax of 5 per cent is applied to scrap iron. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. However, Tunisian nationals who are working abroad may retain the countervalue of their foreign currency earnings in convertible dinar accounts. Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely but must be declared upon entry. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other coun- tries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain certain benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) of June 26, 1969. These include a guaran- TUNISIA tee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. All foreign na t iona ls who have been residents of Tunisia may convert their bank balances up to D 3,500 into fore ign exchange upon leaving Tunisia perma- n en t ly; amoun ts in excess of this limit are credited to Capital Accounts, as are inheritances received a f ter the depa r tu re of the beneficiary. Proceeds from the liquida- tion of non transferab le foreign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. All capital transfers by Tun is ian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, forb idden; in some instances, au thor iza t ion is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issued by an enterprise in which he is a lready a shareholder. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tuni- sia for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By v i r tue of Law No. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold in any form other than jewelry and over the sale of unworked gold to domestic industrial users, jewelers, hand icraft workers, and dentists. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1970 January 1. On expiration of the payments agreement with Yugoslavia, settlements with that country hence- forth took place in convertible currencies. January 1. The special export tax on olive oil, lead ore, zinc ore, and unworked lead was suspended. That on iron ore was reduced from 15 per cent to 5 per cent. February 3. Import quotas for 1970 were published for goods originating in and shipped from EEC coun- tries (including France). March 17. A list was published of goods which could be imported up to D 500 a year by holders of an "importer's card," without import license or payments authorization. March 21. The export tax on iron ore was sus- pended. April 1. The Central Bank quoted daily buying and selling rates for the French franc. Previously, there had been a fixed rate of D 1 = F 10.579409. The fixed exchange rates for CFA francs, the Mali franc, and the 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Malagasy f ranc also were discontinued. The Central Bank's quotations for convertible currencies ceased to be based on those in the Paris exchange market. April 1. Central Bank Circular No. 70-9 of Febru- ary 13 came into effect. Authorized banks were permitted to open foreign currency accounts with banks abroad (except in payments agreement countries) and to make and receive foreign payments through those accounts; any credit balances in such accounts, however, had to be sold to the Central Bank the next day. The Central Bank opened accounts in the names of the authorized banks expressed in individual foreign currencies; pur- chases from and sales to the Central Bank of foreign currencies had to be effected through these accounts. Previously, authorized banks normally had to obtain their entire foreign currency requirements direct from the Central Bank and had to sell their exchange receipts to it. Authorized banks also were instructed to request their foreign correspondents to open Converti- ble Dinar Accounts in Tunisia and were permitted to grant them overdrafts thereon corresponding to normal mail credits. April 14. Global import quotas for 1970 were pub- lished for imports from all sources. April 30. Central Bank Circular No. 70-15 of March 23 introduced a commission of Vw of 1 per cent on all debit entries on the accounts in French francs and other foreign currencies maintained with the Central Bank by authorized banks. May 22. Procedures were announced for the impor- tation of certain goods of French origin to the value of F 68 million, to be financed through French balance of payments aid (COFACE credit of March 20). August 14. Law No. 70.39 granted the Office du Vin a monopoly for the importation and exportation of wine. August 25. Decree No. 70-275 of August 17 was published, which regulated the organization and opera- tions of the Investment Commission provided for by the Foreign Investment Law (No. 69-35 of June 26, 1969). September 26. Decree-Law No. 70-7 restricted the import and export monopoly of the Office des Cereales, Legumineuses Alimentaires et Autres Produits Agri- coles to grains and grain products. The agency's name was changed to Office des Cereales. October 16. Decree-Law No. 70-13 granted the Office National de 1'Huile a monopoly for the exporta- tion of olive oil and the importation of certain edible vegetable oils and industrial oils for soap-making. October 16. Quotas for 1970 were announced for the importation of certain products originating in and shipped from France. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0592447 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira or LT 15.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 14.85 buying, and LT 15.00 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the currency concerned. A separate rate of LT 12 per US$1 is applied to the purchase of exchange arising from the export of certain agricultural products, viz., cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, raisins, dried figs, oilseed cakes, olive oil, and molasses. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the determination as to whether they should be admitted free of restriction or under quanti- tative limitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is mainly allocated by the Central Bank; however, for some categories of imports under quotas, the Union of Chambers of Com- merce and Industry or the appropriate ministry make allocations. Certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require the prior approval of the competent ministry, primarily for public security, agricultural, or health reasons, even if an import license has been obtained or the commodity is on the liberalized list. The Central Bank issues import licenses, and the Min- istry of Commerce issues export licenses. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements1 are made in accord- ance with the terms of the relevant agreement. Certain commercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Paki- stan) are made through special accounts denominated in U. S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies; exceptionally, however, exports of certain goods and services to specified coun- tries may be settled in Turkish liras released under debt liquidation agreements from blocked balances. 1 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agree- ment between the Chambers of Commerce), Hungary, Poland, Ru- mania, U. S. S. R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. Imports and Import Payments 2 Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All commer- cial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within that period. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchants), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial pur- poses. However, exporters, operators of mining under- takings and tourist establishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for a year. The import programs, which include commodities financed with funds from the U. S. Agency for Interna- tional Development (A ID ), classify imports in two cat- egories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, consist- ing of two parts (Lists I and II), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a semiannual list of goods subject to global quotas. Imports of goods that do not appear on either of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the relevant ministry or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements; goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the lib- eralization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations from U. S. AID funds; there are no goods on these lists, however, that may be imported only with U. S. AID funds and only from the United States. An overall foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberali- zation list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted through authorized banks at any time during the validity of the list; these banks 2 The system described in this section is that in operation on De- cember 31, 1970. A new system was introduced on January 4, 1971. The main features are as follows: imports are classified in three cat- egories: liberalized imports', for which licenses are issued freely, im- ports requiring authorization, and an annual list of- goods subject to global quotas, which will be implemented in six-monthly installments. Guarantee deposits for imports on the liberalized list are set at 50 per cent of the value of the merchandise, while for authorized im- ports the rate is 40 per cent; the rates of deposit for global quotas or bilateral quotas remained unchanged at 25 per cent for importers and 10 per cent for industrialists. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY prepare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. Under liberalization List I, there are spe- cial arrangements administered by the Ministry of Commerce to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplemen- tary materials required for export production.3 Allocations under the global quota list are divided into two broad subquotas, for registered importers and for industrialists. Allocations for imports on the global quota list are made by the Central Bank, by one of several ministries, or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, within quantitative limits established for each quota item. In principle, quotas for importers are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis, but for some items the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. Applications for these quotas must be made through an authorized bank within one month of the date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular com- modity. Applicants are notified of allocations made by the Central Bank through the authorized banks. Within two months of receiving notice of an allocation, the importer must apply for an import license through an authorized bank. Quotas for industrialists are allocated by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the Ministry of Industry on the basis of such criteria as capacity, output, and previous performance. After the applicant has secured an allocation (i.e., has been issued a "certificate of need"), he must apply through an authorized bank to the Central Bank for an import license within three months, and no later than one month from the expiration date of the quota list. Some quotas, irrespective of the category (either importers' or industrialists') in which they are included, are allocated by particular authorities, for example, the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance, Indus- try, or Health and Welfare; after securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must follow the pro- cedure for imports under industrialists' quotas. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed f rom U. S. AID funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local cur- rency the equivalent of the foreign exchange applied for. For payments against documents or goods for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to pay the full value of the import and make the foreign exchange transfer within five months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and within one month from the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalization or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilat- eral quotas specified in each agreement must be made within one month of publication of the quota. Guarantee deposits for imports, whether financed from U. S. AID funds or not, are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalization List I, 45 per cent of the value of the merchandise is paya- ble,4 and on List II, 60 per cent;5 for imports under global quotas or bilateral quotas, 25 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by importers, and 10 per cent by industrialists and export manufac- turers, at the time application to import is made. Guar- antee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment employed. The public sector is exempt, how- ever, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to conver- tible currency countries on ly ). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been imported and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposit required for applica- tions to the special exporters' quota established to meet import needs of priority export industries is refunded to export manufacturers when the products concerned are exported. For imports to fce financed from U. S. AID funds, a guarantee payment of 10 per cent not to exceed LT 100,000 is payable for imports of the public sector other than central government agencies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen- tral Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Private persons and legal entities may import freely commodities for personal or family use with a limit of LT 500 for each shipment; residents may import freely unused goods on the liberalization list without obtaining any allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they hold an import permit from the Central Bank. In addition to personal effects, 3 Goods sold in Turkey against payment in convertible currency are treated as exports in this context. The amount of foreign exchange allocated under this quota may not exceed 50 per cent of projected export proceeds. 4 For fertilizers the ratio is 20 per cent. r> For parts and components of motor vehicles the ratio is 150 per cent. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or family use. For Turkish residents re turn ing from working abroad, such imports may amount to LT 10,000 in total value, provided that the goods in question are for use in their profession, that they have worked abroad for at least two years, and that the goods are included in the global quota list. Persons arriving in Turkey are permitted to import as personal effects commodities (excluding cars, motorcy- cles, and bicycles with motors) up to a value of LT 1,000.6 Turkish nationals returning to Turkey after spending at least one year abroad and foreigners enter- ing Turkey to become residents may import their used household goods. Imports without an allocation of for- eign exchange by specified immigrants are limited to commodities included either in the liberalization list or in the quota list; no license for a commodity in the quota list may exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that item or the equivalent of US$10,000, which- ever is lower. Residents temporarily working abroad who combine to form a company to operate in Turkey are permitted to import investment goods under Ministry of Finance quotas, against remittances in foreign exchange. Turk- ish nationals employed abroad may obtain import licen- ses for machinery and certain other commodities valued at up to US$10,000 for use in their profession on return, provided that during a two-year period they transferred to Turkey each month at least US$25 but not more than US$125 and provided that they under- take to maintain permanent residence in Turkey. Foreign contractors may import machinery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without requesting an alloca- tion of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments, without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authori- ties. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Turkish residents who have remained abroad for more than two years may import automobiles,7 or request an import permit, provided that each individual has owned and operated the vehicle for a period of at least six months prior to his return, that the automobile was not more than three years old at the time of acquisition, and that it does not exceed 1,700 kilograms 6 Under this rule, commodities that are subject to customs duty cannot be imported by residents if foreign exchange has been allo- cated to them for tourism or medical treatment purposes. 7 Automobiles are not included in the import program. TURKEY in weight.8 Also, 25 per cent of the foreign currency involved in the transaction, w i th a m in imum of US$1,000, should be sent to Turkey and the cost of the vehicle should be fu l ly covered from the purchas- er's own resources. The earnings of persons who travel abroad on official business on a temporary basis for periods of less than one year are considered as savings when these earnings are in excess of US$300 monthly. Such persons may import an automobile registered in the ir names abroad, provided that over a three-year period the individual's savings amount to at least US$1,000. Turkish nationals who have maintained a convertible foreign exchange account for at least three years may request the release of up to 20 per cent of the amount on deposit for the purpose of importing an automobile. Personal effects of persons entering Turkey are exempt from customs duty, while all other imports without an allocation of foreign exchange are subject to the payment of customs duty. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish resi- dents freely, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials other than diplomats may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty-free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years. This three-year period, however, may be extended. Also, the Ministry of Finance may permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. With these exceptions, automo- biles and any other commodities that have been imported duty-free may be sold freely to residents. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are sub- ject to the following charges: (1) a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, cus- toms duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging generally from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. The rate of stamp duty is 100 per cent for commodi- ties covered by Article 2 of Law 828, as amended by Article 36 of Law 1137. 8 Persons who have been abroad for tourism, medical treatment, training, or business purposes cannot benefit from this provision. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, pro- vided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including ship- ping costs), subscriptions to newspapers and periodi- cals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adminis- tration and similar state institutions, banks' commis- sions and expenses, a proportion of insurance compa- nies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to approved foreign investments is permitted freely. Inter- est on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresi- dents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted to one trip a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel is the equiva- lent of US$200 a calendar year and travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying that amount in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age, the purchase of this amount not being mandatory).9 Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, athletic meets, and so forth, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treat- ment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Turk- ish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the for- eign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident trav- elers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in convertible currencies are sub- ject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indi- rect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or processed products are exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of author- ized institutions cannot accept more than the equivalent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi- dents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Turk- ish workers abroad must be converted at the par value.10'11 Foreign travelers wishing to take out arti- cles of a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by trav- elers (whether of Turkish or foreign nationality) is limited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encour- age Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign 9 The former 50 per cent tax payable on v ir tua l ly all exchange pur- chased for travel abroad, on the cost of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges became inoperative with the change in par value. 10 Formerly such remittances attracted interest payable immediately in an amount of 33Vs per cent of the remittance. 11 Foreign nationals in Turkey and Turkish workers abroad may open convertible lira accounts in Turkish banks. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turk- ish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not con- vert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, how- ever, be utilized as business capital except for invest- ment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, or will operate in a field of activity open TURKEY to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates regis- tered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Minis- try of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guaran- tees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, how- ever, may be presented for minting by the State Mint. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1970 January 4. The import regulations for 1970 were announced. There were no important changes from those applied in 1969. There was, however, an increase in the value of liberalized imports to US$400 million and a somewhat smaller decline in quota imports to US$202 million. January 10. Under Decree 7/3 concerning imports of automobiles without allocation of exchange, it was announced that Turkish residents who had remained abroad for more than two years might import an auto- mobile or request an import permit provided that 25 per cent of the foreign currency involved in the trans- action or a minimum of US$1,000 should be sent to 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Turkey and that the cost of the vehicle should be fully covered from the purchaser's own resources. July 4. Under the twenty-fifth import program, the limit on quota imports in the second half of 1970 was set at US$96 million, US$17 million lower than in the comparable period of 1969. August 10. Under Decree No. 18 regarding the Pro- tection of the Value of the Turkish Currency, the par value of the lira was changed from LT 9.00 per US$1 to LT 15.00 per US$1. The premium of 33% per cent paid on the amount of specified convertible currencies exchanged by tour- ists and other nonresidents in Turkey for local cur- rency was abolished, as was the premium of 25 per cent applied to purchases of convertible currencies acquired by residents in respect of air or road trans- port. The premium of 33% per cent paid on workers' remittances and the 50 per cent tax on outgoing tourist exchange both became inoperative and both types of transaction were effected at rates based on the new par value. A separate rate of LT 12 per US$1 was estab- lished to be applied to the purchase of exchange arising from the export of cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, raisins, dried figs, oilseed cakes, olive oil, and molasses. Rates of guarantee deposit were halved. The rate of stamp duty on imports was reduced from 25 per cent ad valorem to 10 per cent. The tax rebate system for exports of manufactures and semiprocessed goods was simplified and further changes were made in decrees issued subsequently. An Exchange Equalization Fund was established on the basis of exchange profits from the operation of the separate exchange rate on tradi- tional agricultural exports. The Fund would eventually serve to finance investments in export-oriented produc- tion. December 15. The backlog of applications for exchange for imports was eliminated. December 18. Turkish nationals having held a con- vertible foreign exchange account for at least three years could use up to 20 per cent of the balance for the importation of an automobile. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency UGANDA The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling or U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the pound sterling of <£! = U Sh 17.1429. Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings may be exchanged into Uganda shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Bank of Uganda. East Afr ican shillings (which have ceased to be legal tender) issued by the East African Currency Board may also be exchanged at par. In transactions equivalent to at least <£ stg. 5,000 with the public, the Bank of Uganda stands ready to issue Uganda shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Uganda shillings; the official limits for the buying and selling rates for sterling differ from the rate of £1 = U Sh 17.1429 by % and MJ per cent, respec- tively. The Bank deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transac- tions are at present within the official limits. The Bank does not deal in foreign currencies1 other than ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark. Banks in Uganda base their rates for such currencies on the current market rates in London. They may freely deal forward with customers in sterling, U. S. dollars, and other cur- rencies, provided that there is an underlying import or export contract and that the term of the forward con- tract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settlements with Kenya and Tanzan ia, however, must be effected in East African currency,2 either through an East African Account in Uganda or in Kenya or Tanzania shillings. Payments to Kenya or Tanzania must be made in Uganda currency to an East African Account in Uganda or in Kenya or Tanzania currency. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tan- zania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shil- lings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made to an External Account in any Sterling Area coun- try, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account, in any Sterling Area specified currency from an External Account, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West Africa are prohibited. Administration of Control Nonresident Accounts Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Author- ity for approving normal import payments, many pay- ments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Act and by the Export and Import Corporation under the Export and Import Corporation Act. The Minister of Commerce and Industry has powers to pro- hibit imports and exports. The National Trading Cor- poration has the sole right to distribute specified basic commodities. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East African currency area but exchange con- trol is temporarily being applied to both Kenya and Tanzania. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shil- ling. Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanza- nia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Uganda residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers f rom External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other coun- tries in the Sterling Area to Uganda residents, for pay- ments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area - East Afr ican currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, and Tanzania shillings. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U. S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authori- ties in a Sterling Area country has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for trans- fers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non- Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such coun- tries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Ster- ling Area country has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tan- zania, require prior approval. Imports and import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports prohibited for other reasons include cotton fabrics, electrical home refrigera- tors, transistor radios, and matches. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in Africa are not being licensed. Certain commodities require an import license when produced in any country other than Kenya or Tanzan ia. Certain other goods require an import license irrespective of the country of origin. All other imports may be effected without a license from any source other than Rhodesia, South Africa, or Por- 428 tuguese-controlled territories in Africa. Some imports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of origin. All goods originating in mainland China must be imported through the intermediary of the National Trad- ing Corporation. A number of other commodities may only be imported by or to the order of the Export and Import Corporation, or with the Corporation's written authorization. When the importer has obtained a license from the Export and Import Corporation, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank, but documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the Exchange Control within six months. Payments for imports must be made within six months of the arrival of the goods, and the prior approval of the Exchange Control is required for suppliers' credits. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and those to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administra- tively, and most current payments are in fact unre- stricted. The basic allowance for travel outside Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 4,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Kenya and Tanzania, for which holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person are available at most once a month, and Rhodesia and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Salaried noncitizens recruited from outside East Africa may obtain allocations for travel out- side East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited. Travelers to destinations outside Uganda may take out up to USh 4,000 in banknotes other than Uganda shilling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of U Sh 14,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other spec- ified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence that the payment is due. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may du r ing their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33% per cent of their gross monthly earn- ings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc., pro- vided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural prod- ucts require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without li- censes. All exports to South Afr ica, the Portuguese terri- tories in Africa, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for con- version in to Uganda shillings. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of <£ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited. Travelers may freely bring in foreign cur- rency notes. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemp- tions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. (For noncitizens not entitled to remit savings, the allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remit- ted after 1965.) A further transfer of up to the equiva- lent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emi- grant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or held on deposit with a bank in Uganda; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is transferable also during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; but to secure guaranteed repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the invest- ment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East African Industrial Licensing Act and the Uganda Licens- ing Act, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents UGANDA and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are transferable. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the pro- ceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not nor- mally permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to any country more than U Sh 200 a year with- out specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resi- dent in Uganda which is by any means controlled, whe ther directly or indirectly, by persons resident out- side Uganda require prior exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not nor- mally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources other than Kenya and Tanzania, and from Kenya and Tanzania when origi- nating in other countries, is subject to individual licens- ing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1970 January 1. The Customs Act, 1969, making provi- sion for the eventual introduction of preferential duties for goods of EEC origin, came into effect. January 1. The Trade Licensing Act came into force. Non-Ugandans could no longer trade in specified commodities. January 30. Statutory Instrument No. 16 (as amended) prohibited the importation from any country other than Kenya or Tanzania of 17 categories of fab- rics woven of cotton, synthetic, or regenerated fibers. April 24. A bill was introduced to amend the Exter- nal Trade Act. It would empower the Minister of Com- merce and Industry (1) to issue an exclusive license to 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA any person for the export or import of restricted goods; ( 2) to issue an import license for goods which became subject to import restriction while in transit and came under customs control without the proper license; and (3) to make regulations providing (a) for the issue of open general licenses, ( b) for fees and appli- cation forms for licenses, and (c) for the setting up of an advisory board. The bill was enacted on July 25 and came into force on July 31, 1970. April 30. The Companies (Government and Public Bodies Participation) Act, 1970 came into force. It pro- vided for the acquisition by the Government of up to 60 per cent of each class of shares issued or to be issued by 84 specified enterprises (firms engaged in manufacturing, mining, plantation, and transportation activities, as well as commercial banks and other finan- cial institutions). The Act also established that no person other than the Government or any public body authorized by the Government could import or export goods of any description, whether the import or export of such goods was restricted or not. The Government was authorized to take possession, against compensation, of any trade facilities f rom former importers, exporters, or owners. May 3. Statutory Instrument No. 68 amended the Uganda Exchange Control (Scheduled Territories) Instrument, 1965 by the deletion of Kenya and Tan- zania from the Schedule to the latter Instrument, and Statutory Instrument No. 69, the Exchange Control (Import and Export) Order, 1970 prohibited the import and export of Uganda currency by travelers. Exchange controls were thus, as a temporary measure, extended to cover all transactions with residents of Kenya and Tanzania and all transfers of funds to these two countries (w i th the exception that transfers to the East A f r ican Community Organization, the East Afr i- can Development Bank, and the Community Corpora- tions were not made subject to permission). Uganda banknotes and coins were declared not convertible when presented by holders resident outside Uganda. Kenya and Tanzania shillings became foreign curren- cies and were designated as specified currencies, thus becoming subject to surrender requirements. It was announced, however, that in considering applications for any paymen ts or transfers to Kenya or Tanzania, the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Uganda would allow all bona fide payments falling within the def in i t ion of current payments set forth in Annex VII to the Treaty for East Afr ican Cooperation. May 15. Banks were authorized to allocate exchange up to certain l im i ts for payments to Kenya or Tanzania in respect of educational expenses, provided that school fees were remitted to an educational establishment or 430 boarding fees to a hostel. If remittances were made direct to individual students or their guardians, the sum that a bank could approve could not exceed U Sh 500 a term a student. May 29. The Export and Import Corporation Act, 1970 provided for the establishment of a corporation having the sole right (with certain exceptions) to import or export goods of any class or description for purposes of trade. The Export and Import Corporation was authorized to take possession of any facilities from their owners (importers, exporters, or other persons) for such period as it might deem necessary. The Cor- poration could, with the prior approval of the Minister concerned, authorize any person to import or export goods, subject to such conditions as it might wish to impose. May 29. The Export and Import (Authorization) Order, 1970 was issued. Fifty-eight enterprises were permitted to import any goods for manufacturing pur- poses, while 17 other enterprises and institutions were allowed to import any goods other than goods for manu- facturing purposes. A number of enterprises were authorized to export specified goods. June 2. The Export and Import Corporation announced that it authorized all importers to act as its agents and would grant them import licenses upon application, provided that they entered into transactions for their own account. June 5. The Export and Import (Authorization) (No. 2) Order was issued. Persons engaged in import- ing or exporting prior to the coming into force of the Export and Import Corporation Act were authorized to import and export goods of any description, but the importation of 34 groups of commodities ("the restricted list") required specific written authorization by the Export and Import Corporation, and a commis- sion of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods con- cerned was payable to the Corporation. The Order was revoked with effect from October 21. June 5. Exchange Control Circular No. 14 was issued concerning payments for imports. For imports f rom Kenya or Tanzania, payment had to be made to an East African Account in Uganda or in Kenya or Tanzania shillings. June 24. The Transfer Tax (Imposition) Order, 1970 replaced the corresponding order of 1969. The number of imported goods or groups of goods subject to t rans fer tax when imported from Kenya was increased f rom 10 to 26 and rates of transfer tax on a number of commodities already subject to them were raised. July 20. Authorized banks were empowered, sub- ject to certain limits, to allocate foreign exchange for official, business, and other travel to Kenya and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Tanzania, and for maintenance remittances to these countries. October 21. The Export and Import (Authorization) (No. 3) Order went into effect. Importers were hence- fo r th required to make application to the Export and Impo rt Corporation for the importation of all goods other than those listed in Schedule 1 to the Order, whe ther an import license was required or not. November 2. Uganda ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. UGANDA 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyp- tian Pound was established by the United Arab Repub- lic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. A premium of 35 per cent of the f .o.b. price is applicable in principle to the convertible currency pro- ceeds of certain agricultural exports. Holders of balances in External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies may sell these funds to residents at freely negotiated rates of exchange. Holders of balances in Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies may sell these to the authorized banks in which the accounts are held, at a fixed premium of 35 per cent; the banks, acting as inter- mediaries, may sell the funds on to other residents, at a fixed premium also of 35 per cent. Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for balances held in resident or nonresident foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Com- mittee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Under-Secretary for Economy and Foreign Trade in Charge of Exchange Operations and the Foreign Exchange Budget and the Director of Exchange Opera- tions, by the Central Exchange Control Department attached to the Central Bank of Egypt. An Export Board controls exports. All imports and most exports of tradi- tional commodities are carried out by public sector companies. Import licenses for imports that do not require the transfer of foreign exchange are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries w i th which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's 432 country when that currency is available; in a converti- ble cu r rency ;l in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Cen- tral Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized prop- erty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are four main, types of nonresident accounts: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, Nonresident D Accounts, and External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any t rans fer authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Non- resident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. 1 Convertible currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U. S. dollars. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Jordan, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U. S. S. R., Nor th Viet-Nam, and Yemen Arab Republic. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central banks of Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Guinea, India, Mali, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and w i th any amoun ts authorized to be cred- ited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Con- trol. They may be debited, subject to exchange control approval, for payments due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' d isbu rsemen ts ); for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; for t rans fe rs to Nonresident D Accounts; and for paymen ts abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the par tner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to that of any other country may not be made without exchange control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —with trans- fers f rom a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for trans- fers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for pay- ments to the country in whose name the account is designated. External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Curren- cies may be opened in the names of nonresidents or persons who are considered nonresidents, including U. A. R. nationals who have been resident abroad for five consecutive calendar years and emigrants of U. A. R. nationality, as well as foreigners who have resided in the United Arab Republic for five consecutive years. The accounts must in principle be denominated in a convertible currency (see footnote 1). They may be credited freely with convertible currency remitted from abroad; with transfers from another External Nonresi- dent Account in Foreign Currency; and with any amount of interest paid on the balance by the bank where the account is kept. They may be freely debited for any amount of foreign currency sold to the Central Bank of Egypt; for transfers to another External Non- resident Account in Foreign Currencies; and for trans- fers of foreign currency abroad. Holders of these accounts may sell balances therein at freely negotiated exchange rates to physical and juridical persons resi- dent in the United Arab Republic. UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for l iv ing expenses of the account holder or his f am i ly in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in U, A. R. Government loans or in registered shares in nom ina t ive form of companies established in the United A rab Republic, and for subscriptions to increases in capital of U. A. R. companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived f rom such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Blocked accounts held by jurid- ical persons may be debited for amounts not exceeding LE 1,000 a year for settlement of obligations due to the U. A. R. authorities, payments to residents for serv- ices rendered, and expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees or representatives in the United Arab Republic. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place w i thour prior approval. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be opened in the names of U. A. R. nationals who work abroad or perform services for nonresidents. The accounts may be credited with amounts transferred in convertible currency by the account holder (with the exception of fixed percentages of the income received abroad that must be repa- t r ia ted ), with foreign banknotes carried by him on arrival in the country, and with transfers from other Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. They may be debited for amounts utilized to finance imports for the public or private sector; local purchases of apartments, household goods, cars, consumer goods, etc.; foreign travel by the account holder, his parents, and his fam i ly; any payment permitted by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade; and transfers to other Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. Holders of these accounts may sell balances therein to the bank with which the account is kept, at a fixed premium of 35 per cent; the bank, acting as an intermediary, may sell the funds on to other residents, for authorized pur- poses only, at a fixed premium also of 35 per cent. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain, goods from any source, and all imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are also produced locally. In conformity with Ministerial Decree No. 286 of 1967, imports must be made, under the supervision of n ine Commodity Boards, by publicly owned commer- 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC cial companies affiliated with the Egyptian General Trade Organization. The Commodity Boards are responsible for determining the overall export and import policy in respect of the commodities for which they have been established. This includes the drawing up of the necessary implementation programs for the achievement of import targets in accordance with established priorities, and the examination of import offers, taking into consideration specifications, prices, delivery dates, and means of payment. As an exception to this system, direct imports may be made by certain industrial and other public sector establishments. Direct imports of specified goods up to LE 5,000 a year may be made by industrial private sector establishments, provided that no transfer of foreign exchange is required. Individuals are permitted to import for their own use specified goods up to a value of LE 3,000 a year, provided that no transfer of foreign exchange is required. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agricultural, industrial, transportation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. In drawing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings from invisibles, as well as the expected availability of foreign loans and other credit facilities. Allowance is then made for the com- mitments falling due during the fiscal year in respect of foreign debt service and other obligations, as well as payments for invisibles. The remaining resources in convertible and bilateral currencies are then allocated to the various sectors of the economy in accordance with the priorities accorded to the import requirements of each. A financing committee has been established in the Central Bank in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 286. When import transactions payable in converti- ble currencies have been decided upon either by the Commodity Boards or by sectors having the right of direct importation, they are submitted to the commit- tee. Af ter its coordination of import requirements and available resources, authorization is given for the implementation of the transactions, through the Egyp- tian General Trade Organization or the Exchange Con- trol Department, to the bank designated for the sector concerned. Advance payments for imports in excess of LE 100 require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. Imports of new personal effects exceeding LE 100 in value and imports not requiring the transfer of foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Department. All other imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. 434 A development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain highly essential foodstuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current pay- ments. Expenses for permitted travel, family mainte- nance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of pro- fessional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. Private travel abroad is usually per- mitted when no exchange is applied for. U. A. R. nationals who have deposited earnings from their work abroad, or from services performed for nonresidents, in Resident Convertible Currency Accounts, may use this foreign exchange freely for any travel expenses for themselves, their families, or their parents. Other resi- dents may purchase, through local banks acting as intermediaries and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other foreign payments from U. A. R. nationals holding Resi- dent Convertible Currency Accounts or direct from holders of External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all pay- ments for invisibles except students' remittances, gov- ernment payments, transfers of funds for pilgrimages, and travel financed with funds from Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies or External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic and U. A. R. nationals working abroad and returning to their place of work may take with them any remaining foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared. Residents may not take out foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of LE 10 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be submitted. Exports of many agri- cultural products are organized and supervised by Commodity Boards. Cotton and rice are exported by the public sector only, as are all commodities sold to countries with which the United Arab Republic main- tains bilateral payments agreements. A premium of 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent of the f.o.b. price is applicable in principle to the convertible currency proceeds of exports of citrus fru i ts, fresh vegetables, potatoes, and groundnuts. Cer- ta in non trad i t ional exports may be eligible for ad hoc subsidies. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of shipment of the goods. Pro- ceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified coun- tries may be settled through indemnity accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles Physical persons who are considered nonresidents (emigrants of U. A. R. nationality, U. A. R. nationals who have been resident abroad for at least five consec- utive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in the United Arab Republic) are not obliged to transfer to the United Arab Republic any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. U. A. R. nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calendar years or who perform services for nonresidents are obliged to repatriate fixed percentages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. With these exceptions, all persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyp- tian pounds from Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be credited only with the proceeds from sales of con- vertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresi- dent Account. Certain travel in the United Arab Republic by nonresidents may be financed from Non- resident C Accounts or, under indemnity agreements with specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic from abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs decla- ration. Capital U. A. R. nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers by resi- dents are severely restricted. U. A. R. emigrants are authorized to transfer funds and/or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC a f am i ly; in add i t ion, they may export freely personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acqu ir ing securities or other capital assets outside the Un i ted A rab Republic require individual licenses, wh ich no rm a l ly are not granted except for transfers to some ne ighbo r ing coun tr ies. The import and export of securities and s im i lar items requ ire licenses. Capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against pay- ment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be brought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endow- ment policies on surrender or at ma tu r i ty; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family— irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income—may be released from a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign national- ity who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any pay- ment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new for- eign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish guarantees for the transfer of net profits real- ized and for the repatriation of capital. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are con- sidered on an individual basis. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewelry in the United Arab Republic. The monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other form. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. With the exception of monetary gold, most imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Changes during 1970 April 12. Decree No. 500 of the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade allowed U. A. R. nationals employed abroad and returning to their place of work to export any remaining foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared upon entry. April 20. An economic integration agreement was signed with the Libyan Arab Republic and the Sudan. May 9. The United Arab Republic became a Con- tracting Party to the GATT. May. Ministerial Decree No. 1423 freely permitted transfers between Resident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated. August 29. A protocol was signed with Jordan which provided that all bilateral trade, except U. A. R. rice exports, would be settled through two clearing accounts with the Central Banks. The new arrangements came into effect on October 1. September 13. Decree No. 1288 of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade abolished the list of restricted imports. The list, which was subject to periodic revision, had contained nonessential and locally produced goods for which normally no foreign exchange was allocated. October 10. Decree No. 1429 of the Ministry of pconomy and Foreign Trade introduced a premium of 35 per cent of the f.o.b. price on the convertible cur- rency proceeds of exports of citrus fruits, fresh vegeta- bles, potatoes, and groundnuts. The measure was not immediately implemented. November 4. Agreement was reached with Spain that from January 1, 1971 settlements with that coun- try would take place in convertible currencies through accounts opened by the two central banks for each other. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling or <£ 1 = US$2.40. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U. S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.42 buying, and US$2.38 selling, per <£!. Market rates for spot transactions in other convertible or externally convertible currencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian dollars and New Zealand dollars) are free to move within a range of rates result- ing from the official dollar limits of the United King- dom in relation to the dollar limits of the other coun- tries concerned. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies, except Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the influence of market forces; transactions with resident customers may be entered into only for approved purposes, where there is an underlying commercial contract and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market in which the foreign currency proceeds * (referred to as investment currency) result- ing mainly from the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities,2 direct investments, and personal property owned by residents may be negoti- ated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate; at the end of 1970, that premium was about 25 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable for- eign currency securities and for certain approved direct inves tmen ts3 and personal property acquisitions in countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhode- sia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Ter- 1 Under the U. K. exchange control regulations, foreign currency comprises all non-Sterling Area currencies. 2 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities expressed in a currency of a coun- try outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are appli- cable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian currency. All other securities are regarded as sterling securities. The term "securities" includes certificates of deposit and treasury bills. 3 From March 31, 1971, all approved direct investments could be financed with investment currency, ritories" in the nomenclature of the U. K. exchange control).4 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of ster- l ing assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling Area. With respect to outward capital transfers, a program of vol- un ta ry restraint applies to direct and portfolio invest- ment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Australia, the Irish Republic,5 New Zealand, and South A f r ica, see section on Capital, be low ). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is adminis- tered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U. K. Treasury, as is the voluntary restraint program on cer- tain outward investment. However, practically all com- mercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requiring exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any for- eign currency except Rhodesian currency. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to spe- cial regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhode- sian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain cir- cumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the 4 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyprus, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Irish Republic, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwait, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Western Samoa; Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, South-West Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously mentioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. The Maldive Islands, Nauru, and the Condominium of the New Hebrides are administratively treated as being within the Ster- ling Area; in January 1971, the New Hebrides ceased to be treated as part of the Sterling Area in practice. 5 The U. K. regulations refer to Ireland as the Irish Republic, and for the purpose of this survey the U. K. usage is being followed. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Standard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhode- sia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; authorized payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Spe- cial Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling w i th authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for living expenses within the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong) are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United King- dom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U. K. exchange control permission is required; for pay- ments to other countries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see be low), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with banks in the United Kingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including bankno tes ), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (including banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United 438 Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the ter- ritory concerned; and payments by U. K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of for- eign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the discount or maturity proceeds of U. K. Treasury bills, ( 3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have en- tered customs in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade be- tween Rhodesia and any Sterling Area territory, (5) in- surance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased husband's employment, and (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trade- marks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their families; authorized purchases of U. K. sterling securi- ties to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Sterling Area for ( 1) interest on and repayment of outstanding personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U. K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and incidental expenses, (d) insurance premiums and capital and annuity payments on personal policies taken out on or before Novem- ber 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one payment, to individu- als and religious, medical, educational, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds provided the person was a member of the fund before November 11, 1965 or before taking up residence after that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not normally allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U. K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions in the name of the U. K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is normally given for residents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase U. K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U. K. Treas- ury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian securi- ties, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived f rom the sale proceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling Area, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Ster- ling Area, are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not nor- mally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Sterling Area and of services provided by residents of the Ster- ling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodes ia6 are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar Area,7 Japan,8 the Eastern Area,9 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia and those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction, with the following exceptions: (a) from all other countries, 12 commodi- ties or groups of commodities;10 (b) from all other countries except the Sterling Area, 3 commodities or groups of commodities; and (c) from the Dollar Area to licensing control and 6 All goods from Rhodesia are subject licenses are not normally granted. 7 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 8 Japan will ultimately cease to be treated as in a category by itself. For a transitional period, certain items continue to be restricted. 9 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U. S. S. R., and North Viet-Nam. 10 Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Coffee Agreement. Vicuna skin or hair also cannot be imported under the Open Gen- eral License from any source. The restrictions on cotton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. UNITED KINGDOM only, 5 commodities or groups of commodities. Imports f rom countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manufactured and sem imanufac tured goods. A wide range of other manufac tured goods may be imported from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Imports of whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight containers, are prohibited from all non-Sterling Area sources. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to minimum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import from countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of license carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is sub- mitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched imme- diately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essen- tial. Exchange control forms are not required for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area; neither are they required for payments to residents of other coun- tries, unless the payment represents part of final settle- ment for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds <£ 2,000, and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of <£250 is being bought forward. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control authorization, which (except for pay- ments to residents of Rhodesia) 1:L is granted freely for all purposes other than sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resident out- 11 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardship and to remittances of a continuing nature by charitable, religious, medical, and educational organizations for both current purposes (where similar remittances were made prior to November 11, 1965) or to meet capital expenditure in the educa- tional and medical fields. Small personal gifts are also permitted where humanitarian grounds exist for the purpose. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM side the Sterling Area, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £250 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to established limits. Appli- cations for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, pro- vided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against pay- ment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Sterling Area (except to Rhodesia), U .K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of £300 a person a trip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £40 a day up to a maximum of £2,000 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for addi- tional amounts are approved by the Bank of England unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expendi- ture. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. All travel exchange purchased in the United Kingdom must be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrange- ments agreed with certain banks, personal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to £30 per check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resident travelers may take out up to £300 in foreign currency notes. Any unused travel exchange must be surrendered within one month of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one month of return to the United Kingdom. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six months from the date of issue or for one month from the date of return to the United Kingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to £ 25 in U. K. and other Sterling Area banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £25 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Irish Repub- lic. Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submission of appro- priate documentary evidence of the amounts due, appli- cations to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all 440 incidental expenses arising from the education of U. K. residents outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rhodesia.- For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of foreign currency at a rate of up to £10 a day with a maxi- mum of £250. Facilities for private travel are author- ized only where the re are strong compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not normally issued. Virtually all exports to other destinations are free of license. No exchange control forms are required. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must no rma l ly obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment; special exchange control permis- sion to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six months with- out having covered the terms by insurance with the Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained cur- rency account (subject to supervision). Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in s ter l ing from the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisi- bles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of such currencies may, however, be permit- ted to credit them to a retained currency account if they are needed for operating purposes. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United King- dom free ly. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian currency from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign cur- rency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct investments or personal property situated outside the Sterling A rea) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or personal property or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same pur- poses. If permission is not forthcoming, the foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equiv- alent in non-Sterling Area currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must normally be sold to an authorized bank for s te r l ing at the official market rate of exchange.12'13 In certain circumstances, residents of the United Kingdom who are foreign nationals and have obtained exemption from their liabilities under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denominated in the currency of the country of their nationality may obtain permission for exempted cash balances and the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be sold for ster- ling in the investment currency market as to 75 per cent thereof. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of vo lun ta ry res tra int on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed countries of the Ster- ling Area (Australia, the Irish Republic, New Zealand, and South A f r i c a ). Firms and individuals wishing to proceed with direct investment are asked to consult the Bank of England regarding any investment over £25,000. The Bank will examine their plans to see whether they promise an early, substantial, and con- tinuing benefit to the United Kingdom's balance of payments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct investments outside the Sterling Area (see below). Proposals are readily acceptable where this cri- terion is met. Otherwise applicants are asked to finance the investment by appropriate borrowing abroad or by using normally retained profits, i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent past. The aim for portfolio investment is that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institu- tional investor of securities denominated in the curren- cies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom to the other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Each individual res- ident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts not exceeding a total of £300, or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to nonresidents; additional amounts 12 Where currency is received from similar sources by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, permission may also be given for such funds to be regarded as investment currency; in this case, the 25 per cent requirement would normally apply, but for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securi- ties derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 13 The full amount of the currency proceeds is normally permitted to be sold as investment currency when a personal property has been held for private use; when it has been held as an investment, how- ever, the "25 per cent requirement" is normally applied. UNITED KINGDOM may be allowed under appropriate circumstances. The cash g i f ts allowance is noncumu la t ive and is not trans- ferab le from one resident to another. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means. For direct investments outside the Sterling Area, official exchange is normally made available only for certain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospective benefit to the U. K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from p ro f i t s34 and other foreign currency receipts that would not take place without the investment. For such projects ("super criterion proj- ects"), o f f ic ial exchange may be made available up to <£ 50,000ir> or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment cur- rency, or the export free of payment of capital equip- ment and initial stock-in-trade. Direct investments which either do not exceed £25,000 or, if larger, promise an early, substantial benefit to the U. K. bal- ance of payments at least equaling the cost of the orig- inal capital outlay within two to three years and con- tinuing thereafter ("normal criterion projects") may be financed by purchasing investment currency, by exports free of payment of capital equipment and initial stock-in-trade, or by borrowing non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Other approved direct investments in excess of £25,000 ("non-criterion projects") must be financed by long-term borrowing (i.e., for at least five years) in foreign currencies, including nonresident-owned foreign currency deposits with U. K. banks.16 The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must be financed either with invest- ment currency or with foreign currency borrowed out- side the Sterling Area. Such borrowing is freely permit- ted when undertaken by or through U. K. professional security managers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this manner is exempt from the "25 per cent requirement," provided that the proceeds are reinvested in other foreign currency securities. Pur- 14 From March 31, 1971, the level of remittances from nonresident subsidiaries was considered on a global basis. Previous exchange con- trol practice, when reviewing the level of profit remittances by com- panies outside the Sterling Area and controlled by U. K. residents, was to deal with these subsidiaries on a country-by-country basis, allowing the permitted proportion of retained earnings to be used for reinvestment only in the country in which the earnings arose. 15 Raised to £250,000 on March 31, 1971. 18 From March 31, 1971 the distinction between "normal criterion" and "non-criterion" projects was abolished and the three-year pay- back requirement lapsed. All projects formerly falling within these two categories could henceforth be financed by the use of investment currency, with foreign currency borrowing (with repayment on a self-liquidating basis), or by exports free of payment. Various other relaxation measures were also introduced (see footnotes 14 and 15). 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM chases of marketable foreign currency securities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stock- brokers, and other authorized depositories. Purchases from other residents may also be effected with sterling on a U. K. stock exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency premium). The purchase by U. K. residents of a house or apart- ment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific approval and must be made either from another Sterling Area resident for sterling or another Sterling Area currency or from a nonresi- dent of the Sterling Area with investment currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of investment currency are normally limited to reasonable amounts. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents other than resi- dents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; so also are capital payments under l i fe and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a coun- try outside the Sterling Area and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure from the United King- dom, regarded for exchange control purposes as non- residents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sterling Area nationals, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom return to take up residence in their country of nationality) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £5,000 in foreign exchange for a family unit and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of £5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a nonresident. During that period the funds may be disposed of for foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency through the investment currency market, or may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on a U. K. stock exchange, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market. After the four-year period any remaining assets are transferable in accordance with the rules then applica- ble to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the trans- 442 fer at the official rate of exchange is normally allowed. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individ- ual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign currency received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market. Cases involving the take-over of existing companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on their merits. Permissions given for direct investments in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in foreign cur- rency (other than Rhodesian currency) and any subse- quent finance being similarly provided at least in pro- portion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U. K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent from the Treasury before borrowing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresi- dents. Such permission is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufac tur ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U. K. economy. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositories, transactions in securities of all types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Residents are nor- mally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange pro- ceeds (investment currency) in other marketable for- eign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area which qua l ify for investment currency. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U. K. stock exchange for ster- ling, an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on application be exempt from the 25 per cent require- ment in respect of transactions on the "book." Invest- ment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Investment currency may only be retained as investment currency for a maximum of twelve months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.17 U. K. investment trusts, unit trusts, certain other insti- tutional investors, and professional security managers on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, sub- ject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U. K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of foreign currency, whether from U. K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U. K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the permis- sion of the U. K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U. K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permis- sion given by the U. K. authorities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against payment in foreign cur- rency or from an External Account. Securities so pur- chased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United King- dom for settlement only in foreign currency; in no cir- cumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or 17 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final matur- ity) or in six-month treasury bills or other forms of recognized short- term money market paper (including certificates of deposit) without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. UNITED KINGDOM not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Non- residents other than Rhodesian residents may sell ster- l ing securities in the United Kingdom for External Account sterling and freely transfer the proceeds abroad at official market rates. All transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Warran ts issued by registrars, company secretaries, and pay ing agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresi- dents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Sterling Area, and these warran ts may be paid by cred i t ing s ter l ing to an Exter- nal Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign curren- cies from nonresidents of the Sterling Area for deposit; such deposits may be re-lent to other nonresidents or switched into sterling and made available to domestic borrowers.18 Individual ceilings are set, however, on each bank's open position and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents of the United Kingdom may not buy, hold, or sell gold bullion or gold coin without permission.19 General exemption from these restric- tions has been given in respect of gold coins minted in or before 1837. In addition, no resident is allowed to hold more than four gold coins minted after 1837, which were in his possession on April 26, 1966, with- out special exchange control permission; sales of post- 18 With effect from January 12, 1971, restrictions were placed on borrowing by U. K. residents from nonresidents of the Sterling Area to finance expenditure in the United Kingdom. U. K. nonbank resi- dents normally would no longer be permitted to borrow non-Sterling Area currency f rom nonresidents of the Sterling Area for conversion into sterling for use in the United Kingdom, or to finance current payments to nonresidents of the Sterling Area, unless the term of the borrowing was at least five years; consideration would in certain cir- cumstances be given to shorter-term borrowing, notably to finance export credit. (Borrowing by U. K. authorized banks f rom nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area for the purpose of on-lending in sterling had already been under de facto control, since such on-lending was controlled by the limits placed on bank lending in the United King- dom generally.) U. K. nonbank residents would not normally be per- mitted to borrow sterling or other Sterling Area currency from non- Sterling Area residents for any purpose. Authorized banks in the United Kingdom could no longer lend non-Sterling Area currency to U. K. nonbank residents for any purpose without prior reference to the Bank of England. In 1970, the Bank of England had readily given permission to U. K. companies to borrow foreign currency to finance domestic expenditures. Henceforth, application had to be made to the Bank for all new foreign currency borrowing, but out- standing borrowings and authorizations to borrow were not affected. These changes did not affect foreign currency borrowing to finance overseas investment. wW i th effect from April 1, 1971, the Exchange Control (Gold Coins Exemption) Order 1971 exempted all gold coins, irrespective of their date of minting, from the provisions of Sections 1, 2, and 3 of the Exchange Control Act 1947. Consequently, all gold coins could be bought and sold, borrowed and lent, and held without exchange control permission. Exports of gold coins remained con- trolled under Section 22 of the Act. At the same time, the prohibi- tion on the use of gold for the manufacture of medals, etc., was removed. All gold coins, irrespective of date, and medals, etc., were again on Open General Import License. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1837 gold coins also require permission unless made at the current London market price through an authorized dealer in gold or a trader in coin or a coin dealer or auctioneer specifically authorized. With these excep- tions, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and pro- fessional users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or gener- ally permitted to do so; permission is granted restric- tively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for industrial and professional purposes, and, for gold coins, to numismatists author- ized to maintain a collection of gold coins. The manu- facture of medals, medallions (including imitation coins), plaques, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions is not permitted except for export and for academic and sporting awards, and for pieces weighing 5 pennyweights or less or of a value not more than £2 10s. Od. The Mint from time to time strikes gold sovereigns. Although legal tender, these do not circulate in the United Kingdom. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United King- dom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The import by any resident of the United Kingdom of gold bullion and gold coins minted over 100 years ago is on Open General License, but the holding of, or dealing with, such bullion or coins is subject to restric- tions, as stated above. The import of gold coins minted less than 100 years ago is restricted to authorized deal- ers in gold holding the necessary license from the Department of Trade and Industry. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange con- trol approval. Authority has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Sterling Area resident in the London gold market against pay- ment in External Account sterling or foreign currency. A license is required from the Department of Trade and Industry for the export of gold jewelry, etc., con- taining diamonds. The export of gold in manufactured form over 100 years old and valued at £2,000 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. The import of medals, medallions, plaques, and the like, exceeding 5 pennyweights in weight or £ 2 10s. Od. in value, is prohibited from all sources.20 Other manufac tures of gold may be imported without 20 With effect from April 1, 1971, all gold medals, medallions, tab- lets, and other such pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions, irrespective of weight or value, and all gold coins could be imported from any source (other than Rhodesia) without individual licenses. 444 quantitative restriction under the Open General License from all sources except the Eastern Area (see foot- note 9) and Rhodesia. Gold medals, medallions, plaques, and the like weighing 5 pennyweights or less or £ 2 10s. Od. or less in value may be imported without restriction on Open General License from the Eastern Area. All other semimanufactures or articles of gold require an individual import license when imported from the Eastern Area. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Sterling Area, and (3) residents of the Sterling Area who are sellers of new production. The U. K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of % of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. The market operates on a spot cash basis. Authorized banks may not enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may not finance purchases of gold by nonresidents by lending foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collat- eral for advances in foreign currencies or External Account s ter l ing to nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1970 January 1. All quota levels for imports of cotton tex- tiles in 1970 were increased by 1 per cent over the 1969 level. January 1. The liberalization measures already apply- ing to imports from the U. S. S. R. and other Eastern European countries were extended to Eastern Ger- many. January 2. The restrictions on exchange allowances for travel outside the Sterling Area which had been introduced in July 1966 were abolished. For any type of travel U. K. residents could obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents foreign exchange up to the equivalent of <£300 a trip (previously the allow- ance for tourist travel was £50 a y e a r ); for travel for business or professional reasons, the allowance which could be readily authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents was raised to £40 a day (pre- viously <£20) up to a maximum of ,£2,000 for any one journey. Applications for additional amounts of exchange were approved by the Bank of England unless there was reason to suspect that the exchange was to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., could again be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom and credit cards could again be used freely for traveling expenses outside the Sterling Area. Pass- port marking, however, remained. January 2. Restrictions on the export of currency notes by U. K. travelers were relaxed; foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution notes up to the equivalent of <£300 (previously £50) and U. K. and other Sterling Area notes up to £25 (previously .£15) could be taken out of the country. January 2. The facility for U. K. residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents of the Sterling Area was raised from £50 to £300 a donor a year; additional amoun ts would be perm i t ted in appropriate circum- stances. January 2. The special exchange arrangements apply- ing to the operation of yachts (and other vessels used for private purposes) and private aircraft were termi- nated; these vessels and aircraft would be subject to the same conditions as those applying to commercially operated vessels and a i rc ra f t. January 23. The limit on the value of cash gifts which any one donor resident in the United Kingdom could make for human i ta r ian reasons to persons resi- dent in Rhodesia was increased from £50 as from November 11, 1965 to £50 during any period of two years. January 23. More liberal administrative arrangements for exchange facilities for education outside the Ster- ling Area permitted authorized banks to approve over- all transfers of up to £2,000 a person for each aca- demic year. February 19. The list of payments which authorized banks could approve to the debit of Rhodesian Accounts was extended to cover specified payments and subscriptions to medical and educational organizations in the United Kingdom and certain contributions to pension funds in the United Kingdom. The Bank of England was prepared to consider applications to use Rhodesian Suspense Account monies for these pur- poses. March 3. The United Kingdom ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT against Japan on behalf of the Bahama Islands. April 1. The voluntary restraint measures for imports of cheddar and cheddar-type cheese were con- tinued at a lower level of deliveries. April 1. A sterling futures contract was introduced on the London Cotton Terminal Market to replace eventually the U. S. dollar futures contract (which ceased to be quoted at the end of the yea r ). Partici- pants in the market were permitted to operate on behalf of nonresidents of the Sterling Area in the new sterling contract and to operate in futures contracts expressed in any non-Sterling Area currency on termi- nal markets outside the United Kingdom. April 1. The quota for imports of butter during 1970/71 was established at 425,000 tons, against 397,000 tons for 1969/70. The quota for imports of "near butters" and substances containing 50 per cent or more of butter fats was unchanged at 9,000 tons. UNITED KINGDOM April 14. The voluntary program of restraint on overseas investment was continued without change for a f u r t h er year. April 14. London clearing banks and Scottish banks were asked to ensure that their sterling lending to the domestic private sector and to overseas borrowers (other than fixed-rate lending under the special schemes for export and shipbuilding finance) should show only a gradual and moderate increase, not exceeding about 5 per cent (for others, such as over- seas banks, 7 per cen t ), dur ing the 12 months to mid- March 1971. April 16. A law was enacted allowing the ECGD to make loans and to give interest subsidies for export credit, and raising its permissible liabilities from £3.9 billion to £6.5 billion. April 30. Control over institutional investment in foreign currency offshore funds, which was subject under voluntary restraint to a ceiling of 10 per cent of one institution's investment currency portfolio, was tightened. May 1. The rate of import deposit required under the Customs (Import Deposits) Act 1969 was reduced from 40 per cent to 30 per cent of the value of the goods. May 1. The range of goods which could be imported free of quantitative restrictions from Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U. S. S. R. was further extended. As a result, less than 10 per cent of imports from Eastern Europe remained subject to bilateral quotas. May 29. Interim arrangements for trade with Japan in 1970 were announced. Exports to the United King- dom of certain items still subject to voluntary export control would be liberalized and quotas on those items remaining subject to such control would be increased. June 1. The Exchange Control (Purchase of Foreign Currency) Order 1970 came into operation. Travelers resident in the United Kingdom were permitted to pur- chase foreign currency outside the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands, for travel expenditure only, by the encashment of personal sterling checks if they held a check card issued by one of certain specified U. K. banks and the checks were drawn within the limits imposed on the use of the check card. The for- eign currency could not be retained beyond one month after return. July 21. The Bank of England announced that it would normally allow an emigrant's funds held in restricted account under Section 40 of the Exchange Control Act to be transferred abroad at the official rate of exchange on completion of a four-year period from redesignation as a nonresident of the United Kingdom. July 31. Imports of ghee from all sources were 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM brought under control and a global quota of 35 tons was established for 1970/71. It was doubled on October 5. August 19. The property currency market, which had been merged into the investment currency market in 1964 and re-established as a separate market in April 1965, was again merged into the investment cur- rency market. The closing premium of property cur- rency was approximately 60 per cent; the investment currency premium at the time was about 27 per cent. Transactions covering the buying and selling of prop- erty outside the Sterling Area for private use by resi- dents, which previously involved the use of property currency, now were settled in investment currency; sales would not normally be subject to the "25 per cent requirement." September 1. The rate of deposit required under the import deposit scheme was reduced from 30 per cent to 20 per cent. September 8. The Treasury issued a revised general permission covering exports of goods (excluding dia- monds) to any destination outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The completion of exchange control forms (CD 6) for exports outside the Sterling Area was terminated and restrictions on export credit were liberalized; exporters would normally have to get spe- cial exchange control permission only if they extended credit for more than six months and the terms of the credit were not covered by ECGD insurance. September 9. Travelers from the United Kingdom were permitted under certain conditions to purchase foreign currency in specified European countries, for travel expenditures only, with personal sterling checks up to <£30 each drawn under approved check guaran- tee cards issued under the Euro-cheque Scheme. September 9. Travelers were permitted to retain unused foreign exchange facilities acquired for travel expenditures for one month after their return to the Un i ted Kingdom; previously surrender of the facilities was required on re turn to the United Kingdom. September 25. The controls over investment in offshore funds by institutional investors were formal- ized and liberalized. Restraints on the amount of insti- tutional investors' foreign currency portfolios that could be invested in investment trusts, unit trusts, mutual fund s, and similar investment bodies (including offshore fund s) were relaxed; in principle, the portion was raised from the in fo rmal ceiling of 10 per cent to a formal ceiling of 20 per cent of total investment in foreign currency securities. A similar liberalization was extended to the restriction on the proportion of the stock of any one nonresident company or fund which could be acquired with investment currency on a port- folio basis; this action also raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent the threshold beyond which aggregate hold- 446 ings were deemed to be direct rather than portfolio investment. October 1. The fixed interest rate charged by the London clearing and Scottish banks on guaranteed medium-term and long-term loans for export and ship- building finance was raised from 5% per cent (in force since 1965) to 7 per cent on new commitments. The rate at which commercial banks make short-term export finance available under a direct guarantee from the Export Credit Guarantee Department was raised from the bank rate to % of 1 per cent over bank rate, in each case with a minimum of 4% per cent. The arrangements for refinancing medium-term and long- term export and shipbuilding finance with the Bank of England were extended to provide the London clearing and Scottish banks with the right to refinance not only eligible fixed-rate lending included in their advances in excess of 5 per cent of their gross deposits, but also such lending included in their liquid assets in excess of the same percentage. October 27. It was announced that a system of import levies on meat, cereals, and certain dairy prod- ucts would be introduced in 1971 and formally estab- lished by 1974, as a substitute for the agricultural sup- port system based on deficiency payments. December 3. It was announced that from January 1, 1971, imports of sugar from countries outside the International Sugar Agreement would be restricted. December 4. The import deposit scheme was termi- nated. December 5. The import restrictions on coal, coke, and manufactured solid fuels were lifted. Imports from all sources were permitted under open general license. December 23. The facilities allowing institutional investors (mainly investment trusts and unit trusts) to borrow non-Sterling Area currency to finance invest- ment in foreign currency securities were extended to professional security managers (also when borrowing on behalf of resident clients) and ceased to be restricted to loans for at least five years. Such borrowing might be approved for indefinite periods and the proceeds of the securities (including any capital appreciation) on sale or switching were freed from any requirement for surrender of 25 per cent of the proceeds at the official rate unless realization was for sterling. During the life of the loan, borrowers would have to maintain excess cover of at least 15 per cent, over the amount out- standing, in foreign currency securities or investment currency, but as before the cover could be allowed to fa ll below 15 per cent for up to three months if prices declined. December 23. The Exchange Control (Deposit of Securities) (Exemption) Order 1970 was issued, to come into operation on January 15, 1971. Two exemp- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions from the deposit requirement were narrowed. Henceforth all foreign currency securities (except those registered in the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands otherwise than in a subsidiary register on which none of the dividends or interest is payable on present- ment of a coupon), and all secondary securities relat- ing to foreign currency securities, had to be placed and kept in the custody of an authorized depository. UNITED KINGDOM 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%i grains of gold %o fine (0.888671 gram of fine gold), which is equivalent to US$35 a fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of handling charges and expenses and normally subject to a charge of % of 1 per cent) the Treasury buys gold only from official sources and sells it only to governments and central banks abroad, and, under certain circumstances, to international institu- tions, for the settlement of international balances and other legitimate monetary purposes. There are no re- strictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the au- thorities or nationals of mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, and those imposed pur- suant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any person in Rhodesia (including the authorities thereof). The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applica- tions for transactions involving the authorities or nationals of mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the Foreign Assets Con- trol Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing trans- actions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. That Department also administers the controls on transfers to Rhodesia by a licensing program under the Rhodesia Sanctions Regulations. The foreign direct investment program is administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Department of Commerce. The Federal Reserve Board administers the voluntary foreign credit restraint program for banks and other financial institutions. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quotas for certain commodities, including certain wheat and wheat products. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a statutory formula administered by the Department of Agriculture and are prorated among eligible importers under regulations administered by that Department. Licenses for imports of crude petro- leum and petroleum products are issued by the Depart- 448 ment of the Interior. For items subject to export con- trol, the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited unless licensed, if such merchan- dise is of mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, North Vietnamese, or Rhodesian origin. In addition, this prohibition applies to specified commodities pre- sumptively of mainland Chinese origin imported from any country and to certain other commodities if imported from the U. S. S. R., the communist countries of Eastern Europe, not including Yugoslavia, or from Hong Kong or Macao. The prohibition does not apply to goods of mainland Chinese origin when imported for noncommercial purposes by travelers. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and certain semiprocessed cotton products, wheat and wheat products, most dairy products, and peanuts. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, butter oil, and a specified portion of the quota for Cheddar cheese, the quotas above and those for sugar (pursuant to special legislation) are on a country-of- production basis. Under the revised U. S.-Philippine Trade Agreement, import duties applicable to the Phil- ippines in the period 1968-70 are 60 per cent of the lowest U. S. rate on all Philippine products. Imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas. Imports of Philippine coconut oil, scrap and filler tobacco, cigars, and pearl or shell but- tons are duty free within specified limits, with any overlap subject to 100 per cent of the lowest U. S. rate. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement, which authorizes importing countries to request exporting countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified condi- tions, and, if the exporting country does not accede, to impose an import quota. The United States has con- cluded comprehensive bilateral agreements governing cotton textile imports from certain major supplying countries and has unilaterally imposed restraints on specific cotton textile products from a few other coun- tries. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and certain petroleum products. In practice imports of asphalt into Districts I-IV (east of the Rocky Mountains) and of residual fuel oil for burning into District I (New England and the East Coast region) are virtually unrestricted. Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mutton are governed by bilateral ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreements aimed at avoiding mandatory quotas under the Meat Import Act of 1964. The t rans fer of funds to Rhodesia for most purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is per- mitted only under license. Other payments and trans- fers abroad may be made freely, with certain excep- tions which are permitted only under license; these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Africa. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued ex- cept for food and humanitarian items. Exports (except designated nonstrategic goods) to the U. S. S. R. and the countries of Eastern Europe other than Yugoslavia, and all exports (except phonograph records, publica- tions, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of des- ignated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual vali- dated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to Western European countries, Australia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a full year's shipments. The licensing requirements appli- cable to Poland and Rumania are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugoslavia); within this group of other Eastern European countries, the requirements are restrictive on certain items for Eastern Germany. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to control for reasons of short supply. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange con- trol. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohib- ited to and from mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. As regards Rhodesia, they are restricted where they are related to prohibited or licensed transactions. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on cer- tain transactions with or involving mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. U. S. citizens or residents, when purchasing foreign UNITED STATES stocks and debt obligations (including shares in offshore mutual fund s) from foreigners, are subject to an Interest Equalization Tax equivalent to a borrow- ing charge of % of 1 per cent a year (the rate of tax being 11.25 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 0.79 per cent to 11.25 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, including bank loans, with a period remaining to matu- rity of one year or more). Major exemptions from the tax are direct investments, investments in less devel- oped countries,1 purchases from other U. S. holders, debt obligations acquired in connection with exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a foreign country as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, pur- suant to which new or original Canadian obligations are exempt, as are bank loans, whether denominated in U. S. dollars or foreign currencies and regardless of maturity, that are made by foreign branches of U. S. banks to foreign borrowers. A voluntary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in respect of their foreign assets. A mandatory foreign direct investment program has placed restraints on direct investment by setting annual limits on net capital outflow plus rein- vested earnings, prescribing that the total amount of investment each year be limited to a percentage of the amount invested in the base period,2 and limiting the amount of short-term financial assets held abroad by direct investors. A direct investor is defined as a person within the United States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, right to receive income, or right to receive assets on liquidation of a foreign national. Three regional ceilings are enforced on the making of direct investment during any year by direct investors which do not elect the minimum world-wide allowable of US$1 million (raised to US$2 million for 1971): one for less developed countries;3 one for other countries judged to be depend- ent on a substantial continuing inflow of capital that 1 Among other countries the tax is applicable to Abu Dhabi, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The law provides that the following cannot be designated as less devel- oped countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, San "Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European countries at present designated as less developed countries are Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Malta, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. - Where the regulations require a company to repatriate more income than is allowed by host country laws or by business circum- stances, such as certain joint ownership situations, unconditional spe- cific relief may be granted by the Office of Foreign Direct Invest- ments. 3 As defined for the purposes of the Interest Equalization Tax (see footnote 1). They are referred to as Schedule A countries. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES cannot be adequately met from non-U. S. sources;4 and one for all other countries.5 There is in principle an embargo on net capital outflows to this group of coun- tries as a whole, including most of continental Western Europe, but direct investors are virtually free to finance new or additional direct investments in Schedule C countries with long-term funds and rolled-over short- term funds borrowed in any foreign country. Funds raised abroad may be used to finance direct investments without a current charge against a company's ceilings. Canada is exempt from all balance of payments re- straints, except for the application of the Interest Equal- ization Tax to some transactions. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell domestic and foreign gold coins situated in the United States and minted before April 5, 1933. Gold coins minted after this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins minted in or after 1934, and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional numismatic value. Import licenses are not issued for coins minted in 1960 or after. The import of counterfeit coins and restrikes is prohibited. Gold bullion may not be held in the United States except by monetary authorities and licensed industrial, professional, and artistic users. The purchase or hold- ing of gold abroad by U. S. citizens and firms is also prohibited except under license for industrial, profes- sional, or artistic use. Licensing authority is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their output at free market prices either to licensed industrial users or abroad (except to monetary authori- ties). The Treasury buys and sells gold only in transac- tions with governments, central banks, and interna- tional institutions; all transactions are at US$35 an ounce. Gold may be freely imported by licensed users within the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recovered from natural deposits in the United States, which may be exported without license; the export of domestic gold coins minted after 1932 is not normally permitted. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are free of quantitative restriction. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs duties and other fiscal charges. Domes- tic sales of jewelry, including gold jewelry, are subject to excise duty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domes- tic sales of gold in any other form, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. 4 Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Bermuda, Canada, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait- Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, and United Kingdom. They are referred to as Schedule B countries. 6 Referred to as Schedule C countries. 450 Changes during 1970 January 1. The voluntary "guidelines" for foreign lending of banks and other financial institutions in 1970 announced by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) on December 17, 1969, became effective. They intro- duced a separate ceiling ("export term loan ceiling") for bank export loans of at least US$250,000 for one year or longer, amounting for each bank to 0.5 per cent of a bank's total assets at the end of 1968. This ceiling was applied to loans made on or after December 1, 1969. The "general ceiling" on banks' foreign lending remained initially unchanged at the level of each bank's lending ceiling for 1969, but banks' "general ceilings" would be reduced, and their "export term loan ceilings" increased, by the amounts received in repayments on export term loans outstanding on November 30, 1969. The lending leeway formerly extinguished by repay- ments on outstanding term loans to developed countries of continental Western Europe was thus preserved for export term loan financing. Under the 1970 guidelines, the aggregate "general ceiling" of the banks remained at US$10.1 billion and the "export term loan ceiling" was about US$1.6 billion. Nonbank financial institu- tions remained subject to a single ceiling, but were per- mitted to exceed this "moderately" by additional export credits. For the first time, the guideline ceilings for the nonbank financial institutions were applicable also to equity investments in Japan. Institutions with no ceil- ings were able to apply for ceilings, but those with no ceilings or low ceilings were freely permitted to hold cer- tain covered foreign assets up to a total of US$500,000. January 1. The changes in the Foreign Direct Invest- ment Program announced by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments (OFDI) on December 17, 1969, became effective. The Program for 1970 permitted in- creased investment in developing countries. The exemp- tion available to each direct investor (minimum in- vestment allowable) was raised from US$1 million to US$5 million, provided that the additional US$4 mil- lion was used in Schedule A countries. The "target ceiling" for U. S.-financed direct investment under the Program was about US$3.6 billion. The comparable "target ceiling" for 1969 had been US$3.35 billion, but theoretically permissible direct investment in 1969 in full compliance with the Program was about US$5.5 billion as a result of a US$2 billion carry-over of un- used authorizations from 1968. January 1. The Export Administration Act of 1969 came into force. January 12. The FRB announced that it would work out with nonbank financial institutions a program within the 1970 guidelines for the foreign lending of these institutions to eliminate ceiling excesses arising from acquisitions of long-term investments in Japan arranged but not completed prior to January 1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES January 21. Most ceilings imposed under the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Q on interest rates payable by commercial banks on time and savings deposits were raised. January 23. The Department of Agriculture announced the removal of limitations on foreign ship- ments of raw sugar into the United States during the first quarter of 1970. Any sugar within the annual quota of each foreign country could be imported during the first quarter. The first quarter import quota had been fixed at 850,00 tons; the total annual quota for all for- eign countries remained at 4,110,000 tons. February 2. The President terminated the Interest Equalization Tax exemption granted in 1965 to certain U. S. purchases of Japanese securities. The exemption had applied, up to an aggregate amount of US$100 million a year, to new securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Japan, as well as certain new issues by Japanese firms that were approved by the Japanese Government. February 5. Increased flexibility was introduced into the foreign aid procedures applicable to Latin America. The minimum national origin component of Latin American goods eligible for procurement under U. S. aid was reduced from 90 per cent to 50 per cent. Also, U. S. aid for local currency costs of projects would henceforth be provided in freely available dollars; the special letter of credit practice, by which the aid dol- lars giving rise to local currency counterpart were tied to imports from the United States, was discontinued. U. S. aid in the form of farm products under P. L. 480 would no longer be conditional on curtailment by the recipient countries of exports of similar agricultural products. February 24. The President suspended tariff reduc- tions on pianos that had been negotiated in the Ken- nedy Round. The action had been recommended by the Tariff Commission as "escape clause" tariff relief to protect domestic industry, the first such recommenda- tion since 1962. March 10. The President established with effect from March 1 a formal limitation on imports of crude oil and unfinished oil from Canada into U. S. Districts I-IV. A quota of 395,000 barrels a day was set for imports of crude and unfinished oil from Canada into the eastern United States. The total of imports of Canadian oil was expected to be 700,000 barrels a day. The quota replaced a system of voluntary controls. Previously, overland imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, although^ included in the permitted import level, had not been UNITED STATES only where the liabilities arose from borrowings abroad that substituted for direct investment capital outflow from the United States and were not likely to substitute for foreign deposits, or for short-term foreign invest- ments, in the United States. Banks, "Edge Act" Corpo- rations, or "Agreement" Corporations might not count liabilities to foreigners as offsets to foreign assets. A domestically chartered subsidiary of an "Edge Act" or "Agreement" Corporation might count the outstanding amounts of its borrowings from foreigners as offsets to its foreign assets provided those borrowings had an original maturity of three years or more. The guide- lines were not intended to restrict the extension of for- eign credit by foreign branches or subsidaries of U. S. banks (including "Edge Act" and "Agreement" Corpo- rations) except as a result of the restraints on banks with respect to foreign credit to such branches or subsi- diaries. Thus the total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its foreign branches and subsidiaries would represent bank credit to foreigners for purposes of the guidelines. May 15. The Department of Agriculture imposed a temporary ban for sanitary reasons on imports of Aus- tralian mutton. The ban was lifted on July 31, when the Department recertified the first Australian slaughter- house for export to the United States. May 26. The U. S. Treasury tightened antidumping policies by announcing that foreign exporters would no longer be permitted to revise export prices upward to escape antidumping duties. May 27. The Department of Commerce lifted the licensing restrictions on exports of certain nickel prod- ucts containing 20 per cent or more nickel. June 9. The Treasury Department announced that each U. S. citizen or resident would, with respect to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1970, be required to disclose his interests at any time during the taxable year in foreign bank, brokerage, and similar accounts on his tax return. The requirement would be imposed under Section 6011 (a) of the Internal Reve- nue Code. June 13. The OFDI issued formal amendments to the long-term foreign borrowing provisions of the For- eign Direct Investment Regulations (see also May 1, above). For borrowings made by a direct investor before May 1, 1970, the three-year original maturity requirement for borrowings subject to the Interest Equalization Tax was deleted, and the 12-month origi- nal maturity requirement was modified. Borrowing could be repaid prior to maturity, provided that the principal amount repaid was refinanced in such a way as to be continuously outstanding for at least 12 months. Borrowings evidenced by debt instruments with a stated maturity of less than 12 months with provision for renewal did not have to be rolled over in accord- 452 ance with the terms originally specified, provided that refinancing was carried out so that the borrowing was continually outstanding for at least 12 months. June 17. The President increased the overall oil import quota for the Eastern states (Districts I-IV) per- manently by 100,000 barrels a day of crude oil, effec- tive March 1, 1970; he also raised, until the end of 1971, by 40,000 barrels a day imports of No. 2 fuel oil from the Western Hemisphere into District I. The over- all increase of 100,000 barrels a day in the quota of crude oil imports included 63,000 barrels a day already allocated to Canada. June 23. The Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidelines for the offering and sale of shares in mutual funds and open-end investment companies to investors outside the United States. June 24. The FRB suspended the ceilings under Reg- ulation Q on interest rates payable by member banks on certificates of deposit and other single-maturity time deposits in denominations of US$100,000 or more with maturities of 30 to 89 days. June 30. The voluntary restraint level for meat im- ports during 1970 was increased. This was made pos- sible by a Presidential proclamation imposing quotas and then suspending them in the national interest. Bans on imports of meat for the rest of the year were sub- sequently applied to Honduras on July 23, Costa Rica on December 3, and Mexico on December 8. June 30. The President extended to June 30, 1972, the suspension of import duties on most types of copper. July 1. The import duty on manganese ore was sus- pended for a further period to June 30, 1973. July 1. The Overseas Private Investment Corporation was established. Its purpose was to encourage private investment in developing countries and to transfer tech- nology to them, and it would take over from the Agency for International Development (AID) the man- agement of investment incentives programs. July 1. Imports of beef, veal, and mutton from Aus- tralia, Ireland, and New Zealand were prohibited when transshipped through Canada. July 27. The Depart of Commerce suspended all restrictions on the licensing of nickel exports. September 1. The FRB announced that export cred- its of under US$250,000 (which formerly were not counted against the "export term loan ceiling") and granted after August 31 could be counted under that ceiling. Thus, export term loans of any size could henceforth be charged to a bank's export term-loan ceiling rather than to its general ceiling. September 2. The OFDI urged direct investors who felt that their exports to affiliated companies were restricted under the Foreign Direct Investment Program ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to contact it for information on its export credit relief policy. The object of that policy was to avoid any adverse effect on U. S. exports resulting from the For- eign Direct Investment Program while ensuring that such relief was not used to circumvent the purposes of the Program. In general, relief was available to direct investors in the form of additional quotas covering increases in export credit, provided that (1) exports to foreign affiliates were increasing; (2) the credit extended in connection with these exports was in line with historical experience; and (3) the credits were not in the form of long-term debt, issuance of equity secur- ities, or other transfers of capital arising from the financing of exports on a long-term basis. Requests for relief involving even greater amounts of export credit than thus provided for could be granted if adequately justified by the applicant. September 3. The Department of Commerce termi- nated the "short supply" copper export controls. All copper products would be licensed freely for export. September 11. The OFDI stood ready to permit a direct investor, if the need were demonstrated, to "upstream" or transfer all or part of the earnings allowable for direct investment in Schedule A countries to Schedule B or C countries, and from Schedule B to Schedule C countries. Previously, unused allowable earnings, or quotas, could be switched "downstream" only. Furthermore, specific authorization could be granted by the OFDI to an investor to make direct investment in 1970 in excess of that generally author- ized, provided that such excess were attributable to capitalized expenditures for exploration. September 15. The President announced a new policy of partially untying foreign aid procurement. Procurement, already allowed within Latin America, would immediately be permitted in most lower-income countries. Details of this policy were announced by AID on September 22. It permitted procurement with AID development assistance loan dollars from any independent country in the free world, excluding the recipient country itself and also excluding Algeria, Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Liechtenstein, Luxem- bourg, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Rhodesia, San Marino, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Re- public, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Arab Republic, the United Kingdom, Yemen, and Yugoslavia. The so-called componentry rule, which provided that at least 90 per cent (in value) of components of AID- financed commodities must be from an approved source for the finished commodity, was relaxed to pro- vide that at least 50 per cent of the value of finished UNITED STATES items must be from eligible sources. Where U. S.-flag shipping was available, the requirement that 50 per cent of AID cargoes to a given country must be trans- ported in U. S. ships still would apply. With respect to goods financed under so-called program loans (general commodity loans rather than loans for specific project commodities), the price paid could not exceed the pre- vailing market price in comparable export sales in the source country and must be lower than the market price prevailing in the United States, calculated on a landed-cost basis. September 17. The OFDI announced that it would consider requests for more flexible use of foreign investment quotas under the foreign investment guide- lines and might grant special authorizations for the transfer of quotas from one area to another, provided that the amounts involved did not exceed 30 per cent of the aggregate foreign earnings of the investor. It would also be more generous in authorizing foreign exploration expenditures of oil and mining companies. OFDI would also provide relief in the form of addi- tional allowables to cover increases in export credits, provided that exports to foreign affiliates were increas- ing, the credit extended for these exports was in line with historical experience, and the credits were not in the form of long-term debt issuance or equity securities or other transfers of capital arising from long-term financing of exports. September 29. The Administration announced minor relaxations of the oil import quotas. The East Coast fuel oil quota of 40,000 barrels a day would be main- tained but up to 80,000 barrels a day could be concen- trated in the first quarter of the year with a corre- sponding reduction in later months to maintain the annual average. Natural gas liquids imported from Canada, such as butane and propane, would not be included in Canada's crude oil quota. As a result, this quota would effectively be increased by about 40,000 barrels a day. Imports of ethane, propane, and butane from Western Hemisphere sources were to be permitted outside the quota system. September 30. The U. S. Implementing Legislation to the Coffee Agreement expired, eliminating formal con- trol of coffee imports, but the reporting requirements were maintained on a de facto basis in the expectation that new legislation would be passed soon. On Decem- ber 31, the implementing legislation was extended to July 31, 1971. October 23. The Export-Import Bank relaxed its approval criteria for export-financing loans to commer- cial banks and announced that in certain circumstances it would purchase export loans from commercial banks to increase their funds available for financing additional exports. Banks could be given advance commitments for Eximbank loans even if the goods being financed 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES were not, as formerly required, shipped within one year. Loans could be authorized for terms of more than five years. October 27. The President signed into law a bill amending the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require that insured banks maintain and make available certain records and that certain transactions in U. S. currency be reported to the Treasury (Public Law 91-508). The legislation required any individual who maintained a foreign bank account or securities account to keep records for six years and file reports annually with his income tax returns. Banks would be required to keep records of domestic financial transactions, including large deposits and withdrawals, for six years and make these records available to government agencies. The legislation fu r ther provided that any individual entering or leaving the United States with more than US$5,000 in cash or in bearer instruments or transporting such instruments by mail, messenger, or common carrier, must file a report with customs officials. Any monetary instruments in the process of transportation for which the required report had not been filed would be subject to seizure and forfeiture. November 10. The Treasury ceased its auctioning of silver under the disposal program initiated on Au- gust 4, 1967. November 30. The FRB announced steps to strengthen the inducement for U. S. banks to moderate the pace of repayments of Euro-dollar borrowings and to retain their Euro-dollar liabilities. With effect from January 7, 1971, reserve requirements against Euro- dollar borrowings in excess of the reserve-free base level were raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent to encourage the banks to preserve their reserve-free bases. The regulations for the computation of the bases were revised. Banks would have a reserve-free base equal to the average level of Euro-dollar borrowings outstanding in the four weeks ended November 25. These new bases would be permanently reduced to the lowest average level of Euro-dollar liabilities held during any subsequent four-week computation period whenever the average of such borrowings fell below the new base average. Alternatively, a bank could use as its reserve-free base an amount equal to 3 per cent of its deposits subject to reserve requirements during the cur- rent computation period. A bank in this group that had had foreign branches in operation for more than 90 days would, however, also have its reserve-free base permanently reduced to the lowest average total of its Euro-dollar liabilities in any computation period begin- ning after December 24. December 22. The President announced an increase of 100,000 barrels a day in oil import quotas for 1971. The increase would apply to imports into Districts I-IV and would include 55,000 barrels a day from Canada and 45,000 barrels a day from overseas. The total level of these imports authorized for 1971, including fuel oil, would be 1,450,000 barrels a day. Companies importing Canadian oil would be permitted to use half of their overseas allocation to purchase more crude oil from Canada. The 1970 allocation would be held open for additional deliveries of oil until January 15, 1971. New levels for Mexican oil entering overland or by water would be fixed at a later date, but were provisionally set at 30,000 barrels a day. December 31. A Presidential proclamation estab- lished limitations on imports of additional dairy prod- ucts, with effect from January 1, 1971. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transac- tions in French francs and in the currencies of Opera- tions Account countries between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and com- mercial banks are free of commission charges; those in French francs take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Mali). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered for- eign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign coun- tries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control, except for imports and exports of gold and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 200,000, has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter- mediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. and the Postal Administration, any information neces- sary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau in the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the External Finance Bureau in the same Ministry. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (including its Overseas Departments and Territories, execept the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from EEC countries are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports from other countries are sub- ject to licensing. Imports from non-EEC countries out- side the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established up to which import licen- 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA ses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. Imports from Ghana are subject to special reg- ulations. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 125,000. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodi- ties have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun- tries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the author- ized banks. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Res- idents traveling for tourism to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 75,000 a person a trip (CFAF 37,500 for chil- dren under ten), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing after return to Upper Volta must be surrendered. Resident arid nonresident travelers going to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if their destination is not in a member country of the West African Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out, in addi- tion to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 or (if it was either declared upon en try or acquired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs or in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc.), any larger amount. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or in Foreign Currency. 456 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surren- dered. All export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment (engagement de change) and submit a customs certification (attesta- tion d" exportation). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earn- ings must not be received in or from Rhodesia. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must within eight days surrender to an authorized bank any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France, Monaco, and other Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Volta, the control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pri- vate persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All inves tment abroad by residents of Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.2 Foreign direct investments in Upper VoltaH must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submit- ted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of investment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days fol- lowing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Upper Volta requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transac- tions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign compa- nies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in Upper Volta. 3 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. UPPER VOLTA transactions; ( 3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual inter- est rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lend ing abroad is subject on ly to exchange control au tho r iza t ion by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance. Ordinance No. 70-0747PRES/PL-TP of December 31, 1970, the Investment Code, provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two pref- erential categories (A and B) are established, in accord- ance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negoti- ated between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Law No. 25 /61 /AN set up an assistance fund for new indus- tries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1970 January 1. Ordinance No. 69-069 of December 12, 1969 came into force. Taxes levied on certain imported goods were revised. Imports of unwrought gold (including ingots) became exempt from six different import taxes. January 1. A new customs tariff came into force by virtue of Ordinance No. 69-071 of December 31, 1969. January 21. Order No. 11 amended Order No. 128 of February 26, 1969. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA February 10. Ordinance No. 70-11/Pres. MF.C-D made the minimum customs tariff applicable to imports of Japanese origin, with effect from February 1. February 16. Circular No. 10 reminded exporters of the manner in which proceeds from exports to foreign countries had to be received. February 26. Circular No. 16 was issued concerning the application of Decree No. 69-268 of December 18, 1969. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meeting the follow- ing conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 100 million; (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. (3) Loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or taken up by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans contracted before the publication of Decree No. 69-268 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the exten- sion of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. April 6. Order No. 174 permitted travelers to import or export articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams. April 18. Order No. 190 provided new definitions of resident and nonresident travelers and introduced an allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a l im it of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for business travel to foreign countries. Nonresident travel- ers henceforth were permitted to purchase foreign means of payment while in Upper Volta, to the debit of Foreign Accounts in Francs or in Foreign Curren- cies; to exchange these against other foreign means of paymen t; and to export them on departure. Orders Nos. 128, 196, and 333 of 1969 and Order No. 11 of 1970 were revoked. May 14. Circular No. 33 indicated the procedure to be fo l lowed in exceptional circumstances, in domiciling import and export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries with an authorized bank in France. 458 May 14. Circular No. 34 contained a general license permitting authorized banks to approve certain insur- ance and reinsurance payments to nonresidents. All other transfers in this field required the prior approval of the BCEAO. May 14. Circular No. 35 indicated the conditions under which authorized banks could approve the trans- fer abroad of the salaries of government officials serv- ing abroad and of persons sent abroad within the framework of cultural or technical cooperation. May 14. Circular No. 36 stated that the delivery of foreign exchange to travelers in all cases not foreseen in Order No. 190 required prior approval by the exchange control authorities; these cases included the transactions of travel agencies and all applications relating to cruises, attendance at conventions and semi- nars, health travel, and travel for educational or cul- tural purposes. Travelers' wives could under no circum- stances be granted a business travel allocation. May 14. Circular No. 37 listed the types and amounts of transfers for which the authorized banks had received delegated approval authority. May 26. Order No. 255 increased the travel alloca- tion for purposes other than business travel from the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 75,000 a person a year (CFAF 37,500 for children under ten). Hence- for th, the allocation could be taken up entirely in the form of foreign banknotes. September 17. Order No. 526 authorized, subject to conditions to be determined by the Minister of Finance, the crediting of Foreign Accounts in Francs held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks with banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue that maintained an Operations Account with the French Treasury. September 17. Circular No. 67 permitted Foreign Accounts in Francs held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks to be credited with BCEAO bank- notes, provided that these were mailed direct to the BCEAO's Ouagadougou agency by the correspondents concerned. Previously, the BCEAO did not redeem its banknotes when presented by residents of foreign coun- tries and they could not be credited to nonresident accounts. September 17. Circular No. 68 increased from CFAF 20,000 to CFAF 125,000 the amount beyond which import transactions relating to foreign countries were required to be domiciled with an authorized bank. The circular also contained directives in respect of pay- ments for imports valued at less than CFAF 125,000. October 21. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 5 to Banks. The banks' reporting requirements with respect to their external claims and liabilities, as laid down in Instructions Nos. 1, 3, and 4 of 1969, were revoked. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA November 4. Upper Volta ceased to invoke Ar t i- cle XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. December 14. Order No. 711 revoked Orders Nos. 190 and 255 and replaced the exchange allocation for nonbusiness travel of the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a person a year with an allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a person a trip, which could be taken up twice a year. The personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) was abolished. Applicants for travel exchange had to fill out an attesta- tion in duplicate, one copy of which served as a permit to export foreign currency. The amount in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury that resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries could take out was increased f rom CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 25,000. The business travel a l loca t ion was increased to the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a person a d ay, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 200,000 per t r ip. December 14. A b i la teral payments agreement was signed w i th Gh an a. The agreement came into force on May 3, 1971. December 31. A new Investment Code, Ordinance No. 70-074/PRES/PL-TP introduced new p re fe ren t ial treatment for foreign investments in Upper Volta. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange trans- actions take place in an official exchange market con- ducted by the monetary authorities.1 The Central Bank sets official buying and selling rates in this market. Other exchange transactions take place in an interbank free market. In practice, the exchange rates in the two markets are virtually identical; the Central Bank sup- plies foreign exchange to the commercial banks for current transactions, and the proceeds from traditional exports must be surrendered to the monetary authori- ties, while those from nontraditional exports must be sold to authorized banks. The commercial banks are not permitted to exceed specified overbought and over- sold positions and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank. On December 31, 1970, the official buying and selling rates were Ur$248 and Ur$250 per US$1, respectively, and the interbank free market rate was about Ur$249.50 per US$1.2 Certain export proceeds are subject to taxes (detracetones or retenciones), which give rise to various effective buy ing rates. A tax of %o of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, banking houses, exchange houses, and the monetary authorities. The latter collect import sur- charges and export taxes, hold the prepayments and ad- vance deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Bulgaria, with which Uruguay has a bilateral payments agreement, are made through ac- counts maintained in U. S. dollars as the accounting unit. Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the frame- 1On March 1, 1967, a new Central Bank was established but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 2 On April 23, 1971, commissions payable to the Central Bank and additional to the official rate of Ur$250 per US$1 were levied on certain sales of foreign exchange. These were Ur$50 per US$1 for consular fees; Ur$75 per US$1 for family remittances; and Ur$100 per US$1 on travel fares and travel allocations, insurance and reinsurance, commissions for services, and administration expenses incurred by local branches and affiliates in relations with headquarters abroad. No commission was levied on exchange transactions serving to cover the difference between the actual and the aforo value of exports. 460 work of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; these countries are Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. Settlements with other countries are made in U. S. dollars or other convertible curren- cies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to plac- ing orders abroad.3 There are no import prohibitions. The monetary authorities make exchange available for public sector transactions, to commercial banks in re- spect of current transactions, and at their own discre- tion to private customers.4 Imports are classified in eight categories; goods in one category are not subject to surcharge (recargo); goods in the other seven catego- ries are subject to a surcharge of 5, 15, 35, 65, 95, 155, or 230 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration.5 Many imports require prepayments (con- signaciones) in Uruguayan pesos of a certain percent- age of the c.i.f. value; the prepayment must be lodged with the monetary authorities at the time of registration and is refundable on application after six months. Im- ports by public sector agencies are exempt (see foot- note 3 ), as are imports financed with loans from inter- national agencies or foreign governments at maturities of over ten years; furthermore, the authorities may grant ad hoc exemptions. An advance deposit of 200 per cent of the aforo c.i.f. value is required in principle on imports of vehicles equipped with foreign-made tires or tubes of types also produced in Uruguay, but the requirement is not enforced. The following prepayments are required for the period January 1-June 30, 1971. For goods free of surcharge or subject to a 5 per cent, 15 per cent, or 35 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries) is applicable to any imports by each importer in excess of 35 per cent of the value of import declarations (denuncias de importation) in 1970; for other goods subject to a 65 per cent surcharge, and for those subject to a 95 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) 3 On January 1, 1971, all public sector imports required prior approval by the Central Bank in order to be exempt from prepay- ments. 4 On January 26, 1971, Central Bank Circular No. 231 established that henceforth foreign exchange allocations to importers would be made only upon presentation of both shipping documents and an application for customs clearance of the goods endorsed by the bank concerned (or upon presentation of an application for customs clear- ance only for imports from neighboring countries). Moreover, importers were required to present a sworn declaration that foreign exchange had not been previously obtained for the same transaction. The previous regulations contained in Circular No. 122 of March 12, 1969 had established that foreign exchange allocations to importers would be made automatically against presentation of the import dec- laration (denuncia de importacidn). 5 Many different rates of surcharge apply to imports from LAFTA countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is applied for each importer on any excess of imports over 35 per cent of his declarations in 1970; and for imports subject to higher surcharges, a prepayment of 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) is applicable on any excess of imports over 35 per cent of the declared value of imports in 1970. Special regula- tions apply to imports of specified capital goods; for those included in a special list and authorized by the Central Bank, the prepayment rates depend on the f inanc ing period and vary from 50 to 150 per cent (35 to 105 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries), wh i le imports with at least three years' external financ- ing are exempt. Capital goods in the same list but not authorized by the Central Bank are subject to a prepay- ment of 225 per cent (155 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries). However, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 a calendar quarter for each importer are exempt from all prepayments. Imports of all items appearing in the Uruguayan concession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special concession lists for Ecuador and Paraguay are subject to reduced prepayments; some of these items are also exempt from surcharges, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. Virtually all imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties ranging from 1.5 per cent to 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon cus- toms clearance; the 18 per cent rate introduced by a Decree of December 21, 1967 is not applied when the goods originate in GATT or LAFTA countries. All im- ports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of Vw of 1 per cent on the peso amount result- ing from conversion of the f.o.b. value at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of Ur$l = US$2.10 (at a rate of U r$ l=US$l for private imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetra- ethyl lead, and Ur$l = US$0.50 for official imports of the same commodities). Prepayments and surcharges in most cases are calcu- lated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab- lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calcula- tion is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U. S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 15 per cent sur- charge are exempt from this surcharge if transported in Uruguayan ships or in ships owned by foreign lines that participate in Line Conferences in which Uruguay also takes part. All imports are subject to an additional surcharge of 10 per cent when entering Uruguay in foreign ships while Uruguayan shipping space is avail- able. URUGUAY Payments for Invisibles There are basic exchange allowances for certain cur- rent invisibles. The exchange allocation for foreign travel is the equivalent of US$50 a person a trip for travel to neighboring countries and the equivalent of the fare for travel to other countries. Purchases of exchange for travel can only be made once every 30 days. The allocation for cruises by ship is 30 per cent of the fare. Exchange for fam i ly remittances is limited in principle to the equivalent of US$100 a month for each recipient. Under certain circumstances, authorized banks may grant additional amounts of exchange for travel and fam i ly remittances. Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market, provided that in the case of contractual pay- ments the relevant foreign obligation has been regis- tered with the Central Bank; private sector payments in respect of profits, dividends, rents, and certain other in- visibles must be registered in advance at the beginning of the semester in which they are to be made and must be authorized by acceptance of the registration. Com- panies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a fu r ther 10 per cent when transferring this income from Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of for- eign or domestic banknotes, but only specified propor- tions of the travel allocations may be taken out in the form of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are withheld by the monetary authorities. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos per unit of export com- modity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of meat the stipulated maximum is 25 per cent while for wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the export price. The actual percentages may be adjusted at 60- day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds from exports of non- traditional products must be surrendered within 60 days if the sale is on a cash basis or within 210 days if the sale is made on credit. For most exports, including wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum sur- render prices or aforos) expressed in U.1S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. Subsidies of up to 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain nontraditional exports. Exports of certain types of beef dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat, sorghum, corn, 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY and sunflower seeds are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the interbank market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward capital transfers by either residents or non- residents may be made freely through the interbank market. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization; those of resident-owned capital are restricted. All obligations in excess of US$1,000 that are contracted abroad by the private sector must be de- clared w i th in 30 days of the date of the contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Uruguay or abroad; any purchases abroad, however, must be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings. Imports and exports of gold by or on behalf of the monetary authorities or authorized industrial and professional users are settled at the official buying and selling rates; all other imports of gold are temporarily suspended. Payments and receipts in respect of all other international transactions in gold are settled through the interbank market. Changes during 1970 January 1. By virtue of Central Bank Circular No. 160 of December 24, 1969, new prepayments were established for imports during the period January 1- March 31, 1970, along the lines of Circular No. 147 of September 5, 1969. For the three categories of sur- charges, the margins exempted from prepayments were 100 per cent of the quota of imports exempt in the new base period, October 1-December 31, 1969. January 1. Reciprocal credit agreements with Colom- bia and Mexico came into operation. January 23. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. February 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina came into operation. February 6. The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. February 19. Central Bank Circular No. 169 exempted imports of assembled automobiles by car- assembly firms from prepayments, subject to specified conditions. March 19. Central Bank Circular No. 172 exempted imports of jute fabrics from prepayments w i th retro- active effect from January 1. 462 March 19. Central Bank Circular No. 173 extended until April 30 the period Avithin which importers had to present import declarations for imports up to the limits permitted free of prepayments under Circular No. 160. March 31. New domestic content requirements for industries producing automotive vehicles were intro- duced by decree. March 31. Central Bank Circular No. 176 prohib- ited the sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks for the settlement of obligations resulting from the prefinancing of exports, including amounts for the pay- ment of amortization, interest, and commissions. The sale of foreign exchange for the payment of amortiza- tion, interest, and commissions on other transactions was permitted, however, subject to individual prior approval by the Central Bank. April 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Peru came into operation. April 8. Central Bank Circular No. 174 established the system of prepayments for imports in the period April 1-September 30, 1970 (along the lines of Central Bank Circular No. 147 of September 5, 1969) as fol- lows. For imports free of surcharge or subject to a sur- charge of 10 per cent or 30 per cent, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries) was applied on any imports in excess of 200 per cent of the quota exempted from prepayments in the period January 1-March 31, 1970. For imports subject to surcharges of 60 per cent and 90 per cent, the prepayment applied was 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) on imports in excess of 200 per cent of the quota in the same base period. For imports subject to surcharges of 150 per cent or more, the pre- payment applied was 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) on excess imports over 200 per cent of the base period quota. Imports of capital goods were made subject to a different prepayment schedule, depending upon the length of maturity of the financing obtained. Authorized imports of listed capital goods financed at less than three years' term were subject to prepayments of 50-150 per cent (between 35 per cent and 105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries). Capital goods imports included in the list but not authorized by the Central Bank were subject to prepay- ments of 225 per cent (155 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries). Moreover, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 per importer per calendar quarter were exempt from prepayments. Also exempt were imports of public entities, imports for which no foreign exchange transfer was involved, those with fiscal and cus- toms duty exemptions, and those financed with loans of ten years' mautrity or more from international agencies or foreign governments. Other exemptions were for imports of capital goods when such imports were deemed to be necessary for economic development, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports of automotive kits authorized by the Automo- tive Commission, imports of kits and complete motor vehicles when effected under fiscal benefits accorded by the Government, and imports of ju te fabrics. Finally, the exemption was also applied to imports from LAFTA countries of goods covered by Uruguay's com- plementarity agreements. June 18. Decree No. 290/970 reintroduced with effect from November 13, 1969, a provision of Decree No. 539/69 of October 30, 1969, which had established an additional surcharge of 10 per cent on imports entering U ruguay in foreign ships when Uruguayan shipping space was available. June 30. Central Bank Circular No. 191 authorized banks, exchange houses, and banking houses to sell foreign exchange to nonresidents leaving the country, subject to proof that the amount of the sale did not exceed the value of the local currency previously acquired in Uruguay. June 30. Decree No. 811/970 extended the exemp- tion from the regular 10 per cent import surcharge, which previously was granted to imports arriving in Uruguayan vessels only, to imports entering the country in ships owned by foreign shipping lines participating in Line Conferences in which Uruguay also took part. Decree No. 539/969 of October 30, 1969 was revoked. August 7. Central Bank Circular No. 198 required exporters to channel export documentation through authorized banks and restated the rules governing the obligatory surrender of foreign exchange proceeds from exports. These had to be declared in full, and when the actual f.o.b. value was less than the aforo value, the exporter had to purchase foreign exchange to cover the difference from an authorized bank and surrender it to the monetary authorities. August 21. Central Bank Circular No. 200 established a quota for imports of diesel motors that would be exempt from prepayments. August 21. Central Bank Circular No. 199 modified the procedures established by Circular No. 122 of March 12, 1969 for obtaining foreign exchange for travel abroad. Although exchange allowances continued to be restricted to US$100 a person for travel in neighboring countries and to 200 per cent of the fare for trips to other countries, authorized banks, exchange houses, and banking houses were henceforth required to obtain documentary proof of the bona fides of the transaction before selling foreign exchange to residents within these limits. Residents were required to obtain certificates from airline and steamship companies at the time of purchasing passages and nonresidents were required to submit credentials to the Ministry of the Interior prior to booking passage. URUGUAY August 27. The sale on credit terms of tickets for fore ign travel was prohibited. September 16. Central Bank Circular No. 203 announced that the quota established by Circular No. 200 (see August 21) would be considered an advance against the exempt quota for the last quarter of 1970 instead of being additional to it. September 17. Central Bank Circular No. 204 estab- lished new prepayments for imports during the period October 1-December 31, 1970 (along the lines of Circular No. 174 of April 8 ). For the three categories of surcharges, the margins exempted from prepayments were 50 per cent of the quota of imports exempt in the new base period, March 1-September 30, 1970. In addition to the other provisions of Circular No. 174, Circular No. 204 established that imports exempt from prepayments under the provisions of the new Circular would continue to benefit from the exemption even if the goods concerned were subsequently placed in a dif- fe rent surcharge category, provided that the reclassifi- cation took place between the date of the relevant import declaration and the date of customs clearance. September 22. A decree exempted from all import taxes and import charges capital goods with foreign financing of at least 40 years when imported by industrial firms for the production of goods exempt from surcharge or subject to a 10 per cent surcharge. This privilege previously was reserved for export- oriented industries (Decree No. 532/69). October 1. The rentention tax on wool exports was reduced from 22 per cent to 5 per cent. New aforos for wool exports were fixed at levels about 10 per cent lower than previously. A tax rebate of 5 per cent was granted on exports of combed wool, and the rebates on export taxes on wool yarn, fabrics, and clothing were raised. October 1. The export tax on beef was increased to US$60 a ton. However, as an incentive to consumption and exports of mutton, it was provided that meat pack- ers, for each ton of mutton supplied to the Montevideo market or exported, would be allowed to export two tons of beef at a reduced tax rate of US$19.20 a ton. October 15. A bank holiday was declared and all commercial banks and exchange houses were closed. October 19. Law No. 13,892 replaced the previous multiple taxes on exports of wool with a single tax, as follows: greasy wool, 14 per cent; skirted wool, 12.5 per cent; washed wool, 8 per cent; and combed wool, 3.5 per cent. October 20. Decree No. 570/970 established new import surcharges. The new rates were 5, 15, 35, 65, 95, and 155 per cent, i.e., 5 per cent higher than the previous ones, most items previously not subject to sur- 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY charges now being subject to a 5 per cent surcharge. The only commodities remaining exempt were salt, yerba mate, raw sugar, tea, raw coffee, petroleum, coal, and certain chemical and pharmaceutical products. Central Bank Circular No. 214 modified the prepay- ment system to take into account the new rates. The prepayment previously applied to imports free of sur- charge or subject to a surcharge of 10 or 30 per cent was now applied to goods free of surcharges or subject to surcharges at rates of 5, 15, or 35 per cent; prepay- ments previously applied to imports with surcharges of 60 or 90 per cent were applied to goods with sur- charges of 65 or 95 per cent; and prepayments applied to imports subject to surcharges of 150 per cent or higher rates were now applied to goods with surcharges of 155 per cent or more. In addition, Circular No. 214 established that the exemptions from v prepayments for imports entitled to tax and customs duty exemptions would be maintained until December 31, 1970. October 21. The commercial banks reopened. October 30. The exchange houses reopened. November 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Venezuela came into force. Payments for petroleum and related products were excluded from the agree- ment. November 19. The export tax on beef was increased to US$80 per ton. December 31. Central Bank Circular No. 222 reduced the limits on sales of foreign exchange for travel by 50 per cent. The new limits were US$50 a person for each trip to Brazil and Argentina; the equivalent of the fare for travel to Chile, Colom- bia, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela, with up to 10 per cent granted in foreign currency and the balance in drafts payable through the reciprocal credit agreement with the country concerned; the equivalent of the fare for travel to other countries, with up to 10 per cent available in foreign currency, up to 40 per cent in trav- elers checks, and the balance to be taken up in non- transferable draf ts drawn in the passenger's name; and the equivalent of 30 per cent of the fa re for ship cruises, with up to 10 per cent available in foreign cur- rency and the balance in travelers checks. In addition, purchases of exchange for travel could only be made once every 30 days. December 31. Central Bank Circular No. 223 estab- lished new prepayments for imports during the period January 1-June 30, 1971, modifying in certain respects the provisions established by Circular No. 204 of Sep- tember 17. In the first half of 1971, imports free of prepayments would in principle be limited to 35 per 464 cent of 1970 import registrations. For imports free of surcharge, or subject to a surcharge of 5 per cent, 15 per cent, or 35 per cent, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries) was applied on any imports in excess of 35 per cent of the value of total import declarations presented by each im- porter during 1970; the value of import declarations was to comprise all imports effected in the base period, whether within the quota free of prepayments or with prepayments, excluding only the value of tea (yerba mate). For imports subject to surcharges of 65 per cent or 95 per cent, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) was required on the value of imports over 35 per cent of the value of total 1970 import declarations. For imports subject to surcharges of 155 per cent or more, the prepayment required was 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) on imports over 35 per cent of declarations in the same base period. Goods in the first of these categories, when imported by industrial importers for their own use, obtained a 20 per cent reduction in the prepayment applied. Imports of capital goods would be subject to a different prepayment schedule, depending upon the length of maturity of the financing obtained. Author- ized imports of specified capital goods financed at more than three years' maturity were exempt from prepay- ments. Those financed at less than three years' term were subject to prepayments of 50-150 per cent (35-105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries). Capital goods included in the special list but not authorized by the Central Bank were subject to prepay- ments of 225 per cent (155 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries). Moreover, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 per importer per calendar quarter were exempt from prepayments. Imports for which no foreign exchange transfer was involved, those with tax and customs duty exemptions, and those financed with loans of ten years' maturity or more from international agencies or foreign governments, were exempt. Also included in the list of exemptions were imports of capi- tal goods when such imports were deemed to be neces- sary for economic development, imports of automotive kits authorized by the Automotive Commission, imports of specified drugs, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals exempt from surcharges or subject to 5 per cent or 15 per cent surcharges when these were deemed necessary, and imports of ju te fabrics. The exemption was also applied to imports from LAFTA countries of goods covered by Uruguay's complimentarity agreements. Finally, the exemption for public sector imports henceforth was limited to those that had obtained the prior approval of the Central Bank; previously, this exemption was automatic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bolivar or Bs 3.35 = US$1. No transactions take place at the par value. Exchange transactions take place at the following rates.1 The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Any proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee that are offered for sale to the Central Bank must be purchased by it at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1. The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks (for sales to the public only) at Bs 4.485 per US$1.2 The commercial banks purchase foreign exchange from the public at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. Some foreign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buying and selling rates usually are slightly below Bs 4.50 per US$1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U. S. dollars at Bs4.47 and resells at Bs 4.50 after 90 or 180 days. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commod- ity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Gov- ernment and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to imports of wheat for human consumption and to cer- tain exports of coffee and cacao. Prescription of Currency Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives must not be received through these accounts. Other- wise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. iThe exchange rates given (except those for the Central Bank's swap transactions) are those applicable to sight drafts on New York. 2 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, at the Bs 4.50 rate, for travel expenses and personal remit- tances. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; they include fully assem- bled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, citrus fru i t, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette paper, natural pearls, and matches. In addition, many other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions applicable irrespective of origin are main- tained on these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan- tity imported (contingentamiento). Imports of wheat for human consumption receive a subsidy of 25.55 per cent of the f.o.b. value, calculated at Bs 4.50 per US$1; they require an import license, and the Central Bank's Import Subsidy Office establishes eligibility for the sub- sidy. All other commodities are free from import licens- ing. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; private sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made from commercial banks or exchange houses. Resident and nonresident travelers must on departure pay a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, foreign tourists, Vene- zuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of interna- tional organizations. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of most other commodi- ties, except petroleum. Most export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee and cacao are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Exports of products containing subsidized imported wheat are subject to special arrangements to ensure that the subsidy received is repaid. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local cur- rency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs4.40 per US$1. Otherwise, there are no surrender requirements for export proceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may (but need 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA not) sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below speci- fied minimum amounts regardless of external prices for these products. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained also if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. The minimum prices guaranteed by the Government range from Bs 175.00 to Bs 185.44 a quintal for coffee, and are Bs 121 or Bs 150 a quintal for cacao. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. The importation of Venezuelan gold coins is reserved for the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resi- dent or domiciled abroad. The Banking Law of Decem- ber 30, 1970 authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also provides special regulations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated between licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. 466 The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. All imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consular duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3V2 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1970 In addition to the measures specified below, a number of commodities were added to the list of goods that require an individual import license. January 1. Imports of fodder wheat ceased to be entitled to the exchange subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1, which continued in force, however, for wheat for human consumption. The issuance of import licenses for fodder wheat ceased to be conditional on purchases of domestic feedstuffs. January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with the Dominican Republic went into operation. The agree- ment had formally entered into force on July 1, 1968. February 18. Decree No. 246 revised some of the guaranteed prices for exporters of coffee and cacao. The minimum prices henceforth ranged from Bs 175.00 to Bs 185.44 a quintal for four grades of coffee and were Bs 121 or Bs 150 a quintal for two grades of cacao. The Central Bank again was charged with the technical implementation of the subsidy arrangements. Articles 3 and 9 of Decree No. 1159 of January 18, 1964 were revoked. February 18. Decree No. 247 replaced the exchange subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on wheat for human con- sumption and powdered milk by a subsidy of 25.55 per cent on the f.o.b. value at the port of shipment. Decree No. 1160 of January 18, 1964 and Decree No. 244 of December 30, 1964 were revoked. March 5. The Central Bank signed a swap agree- ment with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The swap facility was for the equivalent of US$5 million. March 16. A Joint Resolution of the Ministries of Finance and Development charged the Central Bank with the technical implementation of the subsidy arrangements for imported wheat for human consump- tion and powdered milk. It also prescribed the formali- ties to be fulfilled. April 20. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Peru. The agreement entered into force immedi- ately. May 8. With minor exceptions, the importation for personal or commercial use of passenger automobiles, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution station wagons, and trucks, whether new or used, was prohibited. May 8. A new foreign exchange agreement, replac- ing that of January 18, 1964, was signed between the Government and the Central Bank. It provided for the continued application of the exchange rates of Bs 4.40, Bs 4.485, and Bs4.50 per US$1. It also charged the Central Bank with the handling of the subsidy pay- ments on exports of coffee and cacao and on imports of powdered milk and of wheat for human consump- tion in accordance w i th Decrees No. 246 and No. 247 and the Joint Resolution of March 16, 1970. Unlike the previous agreement, the new one did not provide for the subsidies to be financed from a Special Account with the Central Bank, funds for this purpose having been included in the budget of the Ministry of Devel- opment. The surrender of foreign exchange proceeds was no longer required to establish eligibility for subsi- dies on exports of coffee and cacao. July 1. The subsidy on imports of powdered milk was discontinued by Decree No. 328 of June 23, 1970. VENEZUELA July 18. A Resolution of July 15 made certain trac- tors and specified types of earthmoving and road con- struction machinery subject to import license for a five- year period. August 5. The Congress approved legislation speci- fy ing the bases on which "service contracts" for oil exploration could be concluded. September 1. The Ministry of Development an- nounced new guidelines for the automobile industry. No fu r th er assembly plants would be authorized. By 1972 the domestic content of locally assembled cars was to be increased from 40 per cent to 56 per cent. September 8. A free trade area was established on Margarita Island. October 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina was signed. It entered into force immedi- ately. November 1. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Uruguay. It entered into force immediately. December 30. A new Banking Law was enacted. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$80.00 per US$1. No sales or purchases of exchange take place at the official rate. There are two exchange markets, both with fixed exchange rates: the official market and the limited parallel market. Through the official market pass the following transac- tions: all imports financed with foreign aid funds and some imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or French export credit; transactions on behalf of the Vietnamese and foreign governments for official purposes; transfers to Vietnamese students and civilian and military personnel abroad; and freight, insurance, and incidental expenses on imports. The application of a consolidation premium or a consolida- tion tax of VN$38.00 per US$1 to the official rate gives rise to effective exchange rates of VN$117.20 buying, and VN$118.80 selling, per US$1, and the application of equalization taxes (taxes de per equation) to the VN$118.80 rate results in effective selling rates ranging from VN$125.80 to VN$468.80 per US$1 for specified imports. Through the limited parallel exchange market pass the following transactions: all exports; specified imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or French export credit; and all invisible and capital transactions except those specified above. The rate in this market is fixed at VN$275.00 per US$1, with buying and selling rates of VN$272.25 and VN$277.75 per US$1. An effective buying rate of VN$269.53 results from the application of a 1 per cent tax on proceeds from rubber exports. Furthermore, the application of equalization taxes to the VN$277.75 rate results in effective selling rates ranging from VN$287.75 to VN$627.75 per US$1 for specified imports. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Rates for currencies other than the U. S. dollar are computed on the basis of their official parities in rela- tion to the effective U. S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Settlements through the limited parallel market must take place in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. Payments and receipts in either exchange market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Viet-Nam (Directorate-General of Exchange). Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under the 468 U. S. "Public Aid" program * require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U. S. aid are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of General Trade) and are countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of Foreign A id ). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of External Trade) and are countersigned by the National Bank (Direc- torate-General of Exchange). However, for imports of a noncommercial character, machinery spare parts, and cultural materials, when valued at US$50 or less, the National Bank (Directorate-General of Exchange) is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of External Trade), but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency All imports shipped from Hong Kong, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in sterling. All other imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources must be settled in U. S. dollars, with the exception of imports f rom France and imports effected within the frame- work of a loan agreement, to both of which special regulations apply. Special rules are also applicable to imports financed by the U. S. Agency for International Development (AID). All other settlements through the official market are made in convertible currencies, mainly in U. S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. There is an inoperative payments agreement with the Republic of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts in Free Piastres may be freely credited with the proceeds of sale of convertible exchange and may be freely debited for most payments to residents. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by nonresident for- eigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Economy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see 1 I.e., imports under the Dollar Project, under part of the AID program, under Development Loan Funds, and under Titles II and III of U.S. P.L. 480. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution section on Capital, be low), and proceeds f rom the liq- uidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bu lk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U. S. AID; (2) imports financed f rom Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country-financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japa- nese loans, or French export credit. In principle, prod- ucts imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. Indi- vidual import licenses, which are not transferable, are required for practically all imports. With respect to imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange the Ministry of Economy issues periodically a Credit Release Order specifying the amount of foreign exchange to be released, the time period for securing import licenses, and a list showing the types and value of commodities eligible for financing with Viet-Nam's own exchange. Applications for import licenses for commodities not included in the list are not considered. The granting of an import license for goods financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange and for specified imports under the U. S. AID and French FRANCEFI pro- grams is subject to advance deposit requirements. For the former category of imports, the applicable amounts of advance deposits are fixed in each Credit Release Order; for the latter category, the amounts of advance deposits are fixed by a circular of the Ministry of Economy. The deposits are established in terms of Vietnamese piastres for each U. S. dollar applied for in the import license and are payable by the importers at the time of application for import licenses to the authorized banks, which forward the applications to the Ministry of Economy. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include imports by end- users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports from the Khmer Republic are suspended. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncommu- VIET-NAM nist countries except the Khmer Republic; the main exception is that certain goods financed by U. S. aid must originate in specified noncommunist countries ( the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Tunisia, or the United States). Licenses for imports from the United States are valid for eight months, those for imports from Europe and Africa for six months, and those for other areas for four months. Import licenses under programs financed by the U. S. AID are not issued for shipments valued at less than US$5,000. No m in imum value is imposed on licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. Penalties for underutilization apply when less than 90 per cent of the value of the import license is used. The rate of penalty is VN$10 for each unutilized U. S. dollar. All imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange and valued at VN$ 10,000 or over require a letter of credit. In addition to the advance deposit requirements mentioned above, mandatory margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of import letters of credit for most commodities; depending on the goods involved, these deposits are 25, 35, and 50 per cent. They are calculated on the countervalue at the applicable exchange rate of the invoice price plus the applicable equalization tax. Although the minimum margins are set at 25, 35, and 50 per cent, commercial banks are free to apply higher margins according to the standing of the importer and the market situation for the commodity concerned. Some essential commodities are exempt from margin deposit requirements; these include flour, milk, sugar, newsprint, petroleum prod- ucts, fertilizers, agricultural implements, and raw mate- rials and industrial equipment imported by end-users. Some imports are subject to a different type of deposit (consignation). An import license constitutes at the same time an exchange license. Exchange, when granted, is made available either at the limited parallel market rate or at the official rate plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. An "austerity" tax, ranging from 5 per cent to 750 per cent and payable upon customs clearance, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the official rate of exchange. Many imports also are subject to an equalization tax, ranging from VN$10 to VN$350 per US$1 and payable upon the opening of a letter of credit, when they are financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or sans devises; most imports financed by foreign aid are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Exchange for govern- ment transfers, for transfers to Vietnamese students 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM and public servants on mission or in training abroad, and for freight, insurance, and incidental expenses on imports is sold at the official rate, plus a consolidation tax of VN$38 per US$1. For all other authorized pay- ments for invisibles, exchange is sold at the limited parallel market rate. Students are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of China or Hong Kong, and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for housing and for extra- ordinary expenses. Foreign specialists employed in Viet- Nam may transfer at least 35 per cent of their salary every month, and applications for larger transfers may be approved; they are also entitled to a special alloca- tion for home leave. In principle foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 70 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, after examination of their accounts and after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises established or expanded after 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law (see section on Capital, below). All dividends declared in Viet-Nam and accruing to nonresidents may in principle be trans- ferred in full, after payment of taxes. Resident nationals may once a year take a trip abroad, for a maximum period of three months. Each resident national authorized to travel abroad is entitled to purchase the following amounts of foreign exchange at the limited parallel market rate: (a) US$200 if the duration of the trip is less than one month or US$300 if it is one month or more; and (b) for medical treat- ment, US$500 a month. Vietnamese nationals are required to pay the following exit visa fees— VN$50,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay is less than one month; VN$75,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay is more than one month and less than two months; and VN$ 100,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay is more than two months. Children under ten years of age must pay half of these fees. Exit visas for more than three months are not granted. The allocations men- tioned may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$ 1,000 in Vietnamese bank- notes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsi- ble for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. All exports to communist countries and exports to any des- tination of manufactured or semimanufactured prod- 470 ucts originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the limited parallel market rate. Export proceeds of rubber are subject to a tax of 1 per cent on the f.o.b. value calcu- lated at the limited parallel market rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles The official rate is applicable to invisible receipts arising from sales of foreign exchange by the Vietnam- ese and foreign governments. All other proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered at the limited parallel market rate. Foreign military personnel and official U. S. civilian personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("mili- tary payment certificates" or MFCs) which can be exchanged for piastres at the limited parallel market rate, only through official channels. They are not per- mitted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in Viet-Nam, but there are military banking facilities under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MFCs, or U. S. dollars at two U. S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Viet- namese banknotes up to a total of VN$ 1,000. Foreign military and civilian personnel (government officials) are not permitted to bring foreign banknotes into Viet- Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The minimum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified peri- ods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatria- tion of the original investment a f ter 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (a f ter 20 years for investment of foreign- owned capital previously held in V ie t -Nam ). All imports and exports of capital ( inc lud ing imports in k ind ), except those made by the Vietnamese Govern- ment or foreign governments, are settled at the limited parallel market rate. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which normally authorizes the transfer of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not permit disinvest- ment; such investments are not eligible for the above- mentioned tax exemptions. Gold Within Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all trans- actions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. Only the National Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1970) VIET-NAM Bank is empowered to import and export gold. All domestic t ransac t ions in gold are subject to a luxu ry tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manufac tur- ing cost. The export of gold by physical or jur id ical persons o ther than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or jur id ical persons other than the Na t ional Bank is also prohibited, with the fo l low ing exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when re turn ing to Viet-Nam, bring in up to 13 taels 2 of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) residents may import gold w i thout allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs duty of 130 per cent and an auster- ity tax of 150 per cent as well as an equalization tax of VN$100 per US$1; (3) nonresidents may, without allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any quan t i ty of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody with an author- ized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam the sales pro- ceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. (Piastres per U. S. dollar} Buying 79.20 (Official Rate, Fixed Rate) No transactions. 117.20 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium of VN$38) Sales of foreign exchange by Vietnamese official agen- cies and foreign governments. 269.53 (Limited Parallel Market Rate less 1% Tax) Proceeds from rubber exports. 272.25 (Limited Parallel Market Rate, Fixed Rate) All exchange receipts other than those specified above. Selling 80.80 (Official Rate, Fixed Rate) No transactions. 118.80 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax of VN$38) Transfers on behalf of Vietnamese Government agen- cies; transfers to civilian and military personnel on missions or under training abroad; transfers to students abroad; freight, insurance, and incidental expenses on imports. Imports exempt from equalization tax and payable at the official rate. I25.80-(Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax of 468.80 VN$38 plus Equalization Tax at 36 Rates Ranging from VN$7 to VN$350 per U.S. Dollar) Imports subject to equalization tax and payable at the official rate. 277.75 (Limited Parallel Market Rate, Fixed Rate) Imports exempt from equalization tax and payable through the limited parallel market. All payments for invisibles other than those specified above. Authorized capital repatriation. 287.75-(L/ra/ted Parallel Market Rate plus Equaliza- 627.75 tion Tax at 35 Rates Ranging from VN$10 to VN$350 per U. S. Dollar) Imports subject to equalization tax and payable through the limited parallel market. Changes during 1970 January 1. The following regulations became applica- ble to Vietnamese traveling abroad: 1. The exit visa fee (VN$20,000 for each country to be visited) was increased to VN$50,000 for each coun- try visited, if the duration of the stay would be less than one month; VN$75,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay would be more than one mon th and less than two months; and VN$ 100,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay would be more than two months but not more than three 2 One tael equals about 37.57 grams or 1.18 troy ounces. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM months. Children under ten must pay half of these fees. Exit visas for more than three months were not granted. 2. Each year, Vietnamese citizens would be allowed to go abroad only once, for a maximum period of three months. If the traveler wished to go to more than one country, he was required to obtain prior authoriza- tion from the Ministry of Interior; Vietnamese embas- sies abroad were not permitted to grant visas enabling consecutive travel from one country to another. The need for foreign travel for reasons other than tourism must be properly documented and required confirma- tion by the professional organization concerned. 3. Each person authorized to go abroad was entitled to purchase the following amounts of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate plus consolidation tax: (a) US$200 if the duration of the trip were less than one month or US$300 if it were one month or more; (b) for medical treatment, US$500 a month. 4. Boys of ten or older could not accompany their parents abroad on tourist trips and would be permitted to travel abroad only for medical treatment or for other reasons deemed genuinely necessary. January 19. Joint Decision No. 17/BKT of the Min- istries of Economy and Finance introduced a supple- mentary subsidy of VN$65 a ton on exports of white sand under export licenses granted during 1969. January 19. Joint Decision No. 187BKT of the Ministries of Economy and Finance introduced a supplementary subsidy of VN$20 per US$1 on all exports other than rubber, white sand, discarded metals, drums, barrels, and handicrafts; most handicraft exports received a subsidy of 75 per cent of the f.o.b. price. The existing subsidies on certain minor exports (cotton wool, duck feathers, cattle bones, black tea, green tea, and fish sauce), were maintained unchanged. All subsidies listed in the Decision applied to transac- tions the proceeds of which were repatriated in 1970. March 5. Order No. 255/ND/KT of the Prime Min- ister granted a subsidy of VN$20 per US$1 on exports of rubber, the proceeds of which were repatriated during 1970. March 10. Order No. 1207 BKT of the Ministry of Economy exempted imported newsprint from all taxes. April 30. Letter No. 2893/BKT of the Ministry of Economy announced a new licensing procedure for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own reserves and a system of periodic releases of such foreign exchange. A revised indicative list was issued of import commodities to be financed from Viet-Nam's reserves. May 21. Circular No. 94/BKT of the Ministry of Economy established temporary additional equalization taxes on imports in view of the suspension by the Supreme Court on May 5, 1970 of Order No. 1569 of 472 October 23, 1969, which had increased "austerity" taxes on imports. June 18. Law No. 005 revoked Circular No. 94/BKT and re-established, with reductions for certain products, the "austerity" taxes on imports. It also simplified the customs nomenclature without changing tariff rates. July 28. The Ministry of Economy established advance deposit requirements for specified imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. The deposits required, depending on the commodity, were VN$118 per US$1 (introduced July 28 ), VN$236 per US$1 (introduced August 28 ), VN$354 per US$1 (from August 28 ), and VN$472 per US$1 (also from August 28 ). The mandatory margin deposits on the opening of import letters of credit were not affected. August 13. Joint Decision No. 350/BKT of the Min- istries of Economy and Finance increased the "extra" subsidies on certain minor exports (black tea and green tea ). The following new subsidies were introduced: (a) on services of labor engaged in the manufacture of oil barrels for export, a general subsidy of VN$20 per US$1 and a separate subsidy of VN$10 per US$1; (b) on exports of pine trees, a subsidy of VN$30 per US$1. All subsidies listed in the Decision were applica- ble to exports covered by licenses issued in 1970. September 3. Communique No. 1637BKT of the Ministry of Economy specified the procedures for pay- ment of the advance import deposits introduced on July 28. October 2. Circular No. 1907 BKT of the Ministry of Economy extended the advance deposit requirements to specified imports under the U. S. AID and FRANCEFI aid programs, at rates of 100 per cent or 200 per cent. October 5. Law No. 010/70 and Decree No. 116/SL, both of October 3, established, in addition to the exist- ing official exchange market, a "limited parallel exchange market." The exchange rate in this market was fixed at VN$275.00 per US$1. The following transac- tions were to be effected through it: all exports; speci- fied imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or FRANCEFI aid; and all invisible and capital transactions, including sales of foreign exchange by the allied forces for personal use but except (1) transfers effected by official Vietnamese agencies and by foreign governments for official purposes; (2) transfers to Viet- namese students and Vietnamese civilian and military employees on mission or under training abroad; and (3) fre igh t, insurance, and incidental expenses relating to all imports, irrespective of their financing. October 5. Decree No. 117/SL of October 3 estab- lished at the National Bank a Parallel Exchange Regu- larization Fund responsible for the functioning of the limited parallel market and for any intervention in it. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 5. Joint Order No. 438/BKT of October 3 of the Ministries of Economy and Finance specified 815 import items (out of 1,413 listed in the customs t a r i f f) payable through the limited parallel market. Any of these commodities awaiting customs clearance were subject to a complementary equalization tax of VN$157 per US$1. The official exchange rate of VN$80 per US$1 was maintained as the valuation basis for customs duties and "austerity" taxes levied on these imports. October 5. Order No. 912 /ND of the Prime Minister and Joint Decision No. 441/BKT of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, both of October 3, abolished, respectively, the subsidy of March 5 on rubber exports and all other export subsidies. October 5. Order No. 4407BKT of October 3 of the Ministries of Economy increased equalization taxes for a number of import items financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange and U. S. AID funds. The equalization tax on one item was reduced. October 5. Circular No. 107141/36-D of the National Bank announced procedures for the implementation of the limited parallel exchange market. For the time being, only three foreign currencies were admitted to this market: the U. S. dollar (at VN$275), pounds ster- ling (at VN$660), and French francs (at VN$49.512). October 8. Notice No. 2007 BKT introduced a requirement of a special deposit (consignation) of VN$100 per US$1 for applications to import goods with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. It was suspended by Letter No. 7579 of the Minister of Economy of November 23 for certain raw materials. Also on Novem- ber 23, Notice No. 264 of the Ministry of Economy suspended the requirement for all purchases from U. S. suppliers of goods of U. S. origin and provenance. VIET-NAM (Notice No. 204/BKT of October 8 exempted direct imports through ports in central Viet-Nam from con- signation.) October 20. An equalization tax of VN$200 per US$1 was imposed on chickens imported with Viet- Nam's own foreign exchange. October 28. Order No. 501 of the Minister of Econ- omy introduced an equalization tax of VN$20 per US$1 on imports under U. S. commercial aid of agri- cultural tractors and their accessories. On November 20, the effective date of this regulation was changed to November 20 by Order No. 546, and it was made applicable also to spare parts for agricultural tractors. October 28. Order No. 502 of the Minister of Econ- omy introduced an equalization tax on all types of goods imported under the French export credit program, with the exception of agricultural tractors and their accessor- ies, to be applicable when the goods were imported with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. October 28. Commodities covered by the U. S. com- mercial aid program could no longer be imported under the French export credit program. November. Profit remittances, which had been sus- pended since October 30, 1969, were resumed. December 4. By Joint Order No. 5787BKT of the Ministries of Economy and Finance goods imported in postal or air freight parcels or hand-carried by tourists became subject to special import licenses and import taxes. Procedures, which included certain exemptions, were announced on December 12 by Joint Notice No. 284; all goods covered by special import licenses were made subject to equalization tax at a rate of VN$200 per US$1 payable on the piastre value calculated at VN$80 per US$1. Licenses could be issued only for goods whose importation was not prohibited. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Yemen Currency Board and is defined as equal to 0.829427 gram of fine gold, equivalent to about US$0.93. No par value has been established with the Fund. All transactions take place in a free market at a fluctuating exchange rate; on December 31, 1970 the rate for the U. S. dollar was about YRls 5.5 per US$1.2 The Yemen Bank for Recon- struction and Development charges a fee of YRls 0.05 per <£ stg. 1 on sales of foreign exchange to the private sector and sells exchange for travel and personal remit- tances to its staff at the market rate minus 10 per cent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Board in collaboration with the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD ), a public sector organization which is the only commercial bank in the country and the only authorized dealer in foreign exchange. The authority to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports rests with the Board. Prescription of Currency Settlements under bilateral payments arrangements 3 are made in the currencies and through the accounts provided for by these arrangements. Otherwise, settle- ments are usually made in pounds sterling or U. S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are reserved for the Government. All other imports require import licenses. These are in principle issued in accordance with a list of authorized imports which was established by Decree No. 1 of January 1969 and is reviewed periodically, but licenses are issued freely for all commodities for which govern- ment agencies do not have the exclusive right of impor- tation. Importers who have obtained an import license from the YBRD may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the free market, provided that they open a letter of credit with the Bank and deposit with the 1 The Yemen Arab Republic became a member of the Internationa] Mone tary Fund on May 22, 1970. - There is usually a small d ifference between the f ree market rate in the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bulle- tin rate" or "Bank rate") and that in the bazaar. :| The Yemen Arab Republic ma in ta ins a bilateral paymen ts arrangement with the United Arab Republic. 474 latter foreign exchange equivalent to 50 per cent of the import value within one month. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad do not require an import license and are exempt from the letter of credit and the deposit requirement. In addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent ad valorem and a statistical tax of 2 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles All payments in respect of invisibles require an exchange license issued by the Exchange Control Board. Remittances of savings by expatriates are per- mitted up to 50 per cent of annual salary; they may also remit up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 30 a child a mon th for educational purposes. For tourist travel, the Exchange Control Board authorizes foreign exchange according to the merits of the application. For business travel, authorization is freely granted. Travelers require the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and of the Currency Board to take out Yemen currency in excess of YRls 200 or any foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. All exports require export licenses. Exporters are in principle required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within three months from shipment. In practice, the surrender requirement for exports of cotton, coffee, salt, and hides and skins is 50 per cent, payable within three months from shipment. Proceeds from qat exports are subject to 100 per cent surrender in Southern Yemen dinars within 15 days from shipment, a 5 per cent initial deposit having to be made at the YBRD upon receipt of the license. Other exports (com- prising mainly fruits, fish, and tobacco) are not subject to surrender requirements in cash terms, but the pro- ceeds must be used fully for importing food, and an initial rial deposit of 5 per cent of the export value is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must in principle be surren- dered but citizens of the Yemen Arab Republic may ma in ta in foreign currency deposit accounts with the YBRD. The import of foreign exchange (whether in the form of gold, silver, currency, or draf ts) and of banknotes of the Yemen Arab Republic requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy, but foreign nationals and nonresidents are exempt from these provisions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All capital transfers require prior approval and capi- tal proceeds must be surrendered. Both domestic and foreign investment are regulated by Law No. 13 of 1970. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or capital. Gold A 20-rial gold coin has been issued, which is not legal tender and does not circulate in the Yemen Arab Repub- lic. Dealings in gold are governed by Regulation No. 5 of 1967. The Regulation stipulates that, apart from deal- ings relating to numismatic or ornamental purposes, residents may not deal in gold except with the authoriza- tion of the Minister of Economy. Residents coming into possession of gold (other than ornaments or numismatic coins) are required to offer it for sale to a licensed gold dealer. Licensed dealers are in turn required to sell any gold so acquired to the YBRD within one week from the date of purchase. Changes during 1970 During the year, the Ministry of Economy issued instructions to the Foreign Exchange Board to grant import licenses freely for all commodities for which government agencies did not have an exclusive right of importation. August 20. A number of special exchange rates that YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC had been applicable mainly to certain transactions under aid agreements with Eastern European countries and ma in land China were abolished. They included the former official rate of YRls 3 per pound sterling. August 20. Transfers by diplomatic and UN missions were effected at the free market rate; previously, a fixed rate of YRls 8 per US$1 was applied to 50 per cent of such transfers. August 20. All sales of foreign currency to the YBRD by residents, including expatriates, henceforth took place at the bazaar free market rate rather than the YBRD's Bulletin rate. August 20. Any citizen of the Yemen Arab Republic was allowed to open a foreign currency deposit account with the YBRD. September. Exporters of coffee, cotton, salt, and hides and skins were no longer required to make an initial rial deposit of 10 per cent of the total value upon receipt of the export license. September. The YBRD levied a fee of YRls 0.05 per £ stg. 1 on its sales of exchange to the private sector. September. Exchange for business travel could be obtained from the YBRD. Previously, it had to be obtained in the bazaar. November 19. An investment law, Law No. 13, came into force. It regulated both domestic and foreign invest- ment in the Yemen Arab Republic and repealed the Development Law (Law No. 2 of 1964) and the Invest- ment of Foreign Capital Law (Law No. 22 of 1964). 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Exchange Rate System The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Southern Yemen Dinar, which is issued by the Currency Authority and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold, correspond- ing to SYD 1 = US$2.40. No par value has been estab- lished for the Southern Yemen dinar. The Currency Authority's rates for the purchase and sale of pounds sterling in transactions with the public are fixed at % per cent either side of parity, but thus far no dealings have taken place with the public. The rates for the Currency Authority's transactions with authorized banks are set at % per cent either side of parity for transactions up to SYD 100,000 and at %2 per cent either side of parity for transactions exceeding SYD 100,000; dealings in U. S. dollars with authorized banks take place at % per cent either side of parity. A transfer duty of 1 per cent is levied on certain personal remittances and on foreign exchange made available for nonofficial travel (including travelers checks issued by banks). Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Exchange Control Department of the Ministry of Economy and Industry. The Ministry also issues import and export licenses, through its Controller of Civil Supplies, except those for gold, which are issued by the Exchange Controller. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Exchange Controller). Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by an authorized dealer, and for payments by the oil refinery, all payments to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Exchange Controller. Two public corporations and a semipublic corporation are engaged in foreign trade (see Imports and Import Pay- ments, below). The oil refinery is treated as a nonresi- dent entity and in its operations generally is not affected by the existing exchange and trade controls. Prescription of Currency The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is a member of the Sterling Area. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers in accordance with prescription of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the United Kingdom. All pay- ments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be 476 received in prescribed currencies l and surrendered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held by certain persons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen whether they are resident in or outside the Ster- ling Area. The principal type of nonresident account is the External Account in Southern Yemen Dinars. External Accounts may also be held by certain resi- dents. They may be credited with proceeds from con- vertible foreign currency transferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with bal- ances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts cannot be credited with payments in the form of foreign banknotes, or with locally raised or locally earned funds. External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convert- ible currency. The Exchange Controller may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except for invest- ments in prescribed securities, balances in Blocked Accounts cannot be debited without the permission of the Exchange Controller. Securities thus acquired may be dealt with freely. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, all imports other than those of the Government and the oil refinery require individ- ual licenses. Overland merchanting trade with the Yemen Arab Republic is also exempt from the licens- ing requirements. There are special regulations govern- ing merchanting trade with other countries. Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for imports against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Exchange Controller; all other forms of payment for imports require such approval. A state Board of Trade, which is a department of the Economic Organization for the Public Sector and National Planning, is in charge of the trading activities of the nationalized companies. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cig- arettes. The National Import Company Ltd. imports certain consumer goods not mentioned in Law No. 37 of 1969. The National Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all 1 All freely convertible currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution government requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals. Imports into and exports from the free port zone of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls and are exempt from customs duties. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain remittances up to SYD 10,2 all payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Exchange Controller. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of SYD 100 in travelers checks and drafts and SYD 100 in foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 12). Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. For- eign employees of approved enterprises and the oil refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent and three eighths, respectively, of their total earnings (net of taxes). All insurance is nationalized and existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company. A transfer duty of 1 per cent applies to purchases of foreign exchange (including travelers checks) for family remittances and for tourist, business, educa- tional, and health travel; official travel allowances are exempt. Travelers may take out the equivalent of SYD 10 in domestic or foreign banknotes and up to the equivalent of SYD 100 in travelers checks. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except petroleum products require licenses. Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within three months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) when due and surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes but not more than SYD 10 in domestic currency. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. However, external borrowing by nonresident firms operating in Aden is exempt. Resi- dents may freely retain abroad certain capital proceeds, including those from the sale of real property to per- sons resident in the Sterling Area. Expatriates are nor- 2 Authorized dealers may approve remittances up to SYD 10 for the purpose of repairs to watches, cameras, and so forth; subscrip- tion to newspapers; import of samples; and payment of commission on exported goods. PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN mally permitted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 27 of July 22, 1969) may be granted exemptions from import duty, and various other tax facilities. While all other remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Exchange Control- ler, profit remittances abroad by foreign firms approved under Law No. 27 also require the permission of the Minister of Economy and Industry and in any one year should not normally exceed 10 per cent of the capital brought into the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, although the Minister may approve larger transfers. In general, the remittance of depreciation allowances is not permitted, but for approved foreign investments the Minister may allow the annual transfer of up to 10 per cent of the capital brought in, begin- ning two years after production has started. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the firm con- cerned has been established may also be remitted, pro- vided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed gold- smiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coins and ornaments up to specified lim- its set by the Exchange Controller. Other residents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by authorized deal- ers require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller; goldsmiths are not permitted to import or export gold and must meet their requirements through authorized dealers. Travelers entering the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may bring in reasonable amounts of gold in any form; departing travelers may take out reasonable amounts of gold ornaments only. Imports and exports of gold by travelers are subject only to customs control, but incoming travelers must sell to an authorized dealer any gold coins or bullion they carry. Changes during 1970 January 12. A circular governing the opening and utilization of External Accounts was issued. January 12. Exchange control approval was required for the repatriation to their country of permanent resi- dence in the Sterling Area of bank balances held in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen by expatriates. April 1. The National Company for Foreign Trade and the National Company for Home Trade began operations. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN April 1. Only Southern Yemen nationals could act as commercial agents for foreign firms. June 25. The Government published regulations gov- erning the activities of various bodies set up by virtue of Law No. 37 of 1969, viz., the Economic Organiza- tion for the Public Sector and National Planning, the Banks' Board, the Board of Trade, the Insurance Board, the Ports' Board, and the Petroleum Board. December 8. The free port status of Aden was ter- minated and a free port zone was created in the port of Aden. Transactions in the free port zone became exempt from exchange and trade controls, provided that settlements took place in convertible currencies. Import duties were applied to all imports into Aden, excluding the free port zone; previously, most imports into Aden were exempt from customs duties. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Prescription of Currency YUGOSLAVIA x The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar or Din 12.50 = US$1.2 All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provi- sions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transac- tions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by v ir tue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing bal- anced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secre- tariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange control. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 million and an annual exchange turnover of at least US$80 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugosla- via and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees). Limited author- ized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices may only deal in for- eign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose with district courts. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain conditions, including the provision of mini- mum working capital for trade enterprises, are fulfilled. Economic organizations that are not registered to con- duct foreign trade channel their orders through eco- nomic organizations which export and/or import on their own behalf. 1 In view of changes that took place on January 1, 1971 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 On January 23, 1971 the par value was changed to Din 15.00 = US$1. Payments to and from countries with which Yugosla- via has b i la teral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set fo r th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral accounts as fo l lows: ( 1) in U. S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, Turkey, and the U. S. S. R.; and (2) in the ir respective cur- rencies with India and Iraq. Certain settlements with Colombia, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. A degree of mu l t i la tera l iza t ion of pay- ments is provided under the bilateral payments agree- ments with Afghanistan, Iraq, and Mali. (The payments agreement with Guinea was terminated on Janua ry 3, 1971 and those with Mali and Turkey on Ap r il 1, 1971.) Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. For- eign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with authorized banks accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited. Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers f rom these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the account-holding bank's being pre- pared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for foreign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia and subject to prior approval by the National Bank. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for re- transfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open dinar accounts with authorized banks. These ac- counts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugo- slavia in accordance with the existing regulations or sub- ject to the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Balances are in principle nontransferable and may be 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his close family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign physical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties or from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected in accordance with the exist- ing regulations. Yugoslav resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts with any authorized bank. These ac- counts are interest bearing, and interest is paid in for- eign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be re- tained for an indefinite period of time and they may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the holder or his immediate family; balances are not transferable, however, to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav emigrants residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open for- eign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in for- eign trade. In addition to economic organizations spe- cializing in foreign trade, most major industrial producers are registered. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Agri- cultural Products Reserves, on the basis of public bids, to act as its agents. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in four categories according to the manner in which exchange is made available: LB —liberalized goods; GDK—goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quantity and DK if they are fixed in d ina r s ); and D— imports subject to ad hoc licensing. About 1,836 items (out of a total of over 4,500) are classified under LB; protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foodstuffs, and spare parts; they also in- clude some consumer goods. In 1970 goods currently im- ported under the LB regime accounted for 31.2 per cent of total imports. Exchange for payments for LB im- ports from the convertible currency area is made avail- 480 able freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberal- ized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the avail- ability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, some raw materials, and most capital equipment. In 1970 im- ports of commodities presently on this list amounted to 44.8 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several different procedures. Those for non- consumer goods are as follows. Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. For certain imports by the metal-working, shipbuilding, electrical, and textile industries the authority to use the allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports that the importers have made (import-export l ink ing) .3 Major exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports settled in convertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to pay freely for imports of raw materials and other reproduction materials for their own needs. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from reten- tion quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including sup- pliers' credits. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly and in 1970 they accounted for 3.8 per cent of total imports of equipment. Economic orga- nizations may acquire foreign exchange not exceeding 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance. Certain services may use percentages varying between 30 per cent (ocean and river shipping) and 100 per cent (air transportation). One half of the exchange thus allocated is in convertible and one half in bilateral currency. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also cigars, cigarettes, and machine tools, are subject to maximum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the 8 This system is also applied to certain DK imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution economic organizations.4 Imports of present RK and DK items amounted to 17.9 per cent of imports in 1970. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammunition, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, certain textile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad rolling stock, and a i rc ra f t. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. Such licenses do not imply the right to purchase fore ign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Imports of D items accounted for 6.1 per cent of total imports in 1970. For certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, for a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretar- iat for Foreign Trade. These goods are 89 LB items, 73 GDK items, and 25 RK items. For all 187 items, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. (On June 3, 1971 the accordance requirement was restricted to 24 LB items, 26 GDK items, and 4 RK items.) Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or the use of close relatives, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Also, Yugoslavs re turn ing from work abroad may import goods intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided that such goods were paid for from the savings from their foreign earnings; such sav- ings need not be kept on foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may only import motorcars, trucks, motor- cycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, through a registered enterprise, provided that payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent resi- dence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been 4 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations within the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Administration, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. YUGOSLAVIA destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign cu r rency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens re tu rn ing from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. However, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances; in 1970 they accounted for 0.2 per cent of total imports. Importers are required to no t ify authorized banks of all payments abroad of more than the equivalent of US$5,000 r» one month before the payments fall due. At this time 6 they are also required to deposit with an authorized bank an amount in dinars equal in value to the import order. The deposits are not interest bearing and they are used to purchase the foreign exchange for the import payment. Deposits are not required for pay- ments made by debiting foreign exchange accounts of importers. In addition to the above deposit requirement, import- ers are obliged to deposit with an authorized bank dinars equivalent to 20 per cent of the import payment.7 These deposits have to be lodged at the same time as the other deposits mentioned above, and they are released after three months. They are not interest bearing, and have to be made even if payments are made by debiting foreign exchange accounts of importers. Payments for imports under bilateral pay- ments agreements are exempted from this deposit requirement, and in addition they are not required for imports of a few specified goods, such as raw materials for producing edible oils, wheat, wool, cotton, jute, nat- ural fertilizers, crude oil, gas oil, fuel oil, coke, and pig iron. Many agricultural commodities and foodstuffs are subject to variable import levies. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs duty; in addition, an import surcharge of 5 per cen t8 of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for those commodities.. 5 However, for imports of certain raw materials only payments of more than US$100,000 are governed by this regulation, and no dinar advance deposit is required. 6 The implementing rules are such that deposits for payments in nonconvertible currencies for imports from the bilateral area may be made less than one month before payments fall due. The average effective deposit period for all payments has been 15-20 days. 7 This deposit requirement was abolished on January 24, 1971. 8 Reduced to 2 per cent on January 24, 1971. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made f ree ly available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferab le under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains bilateral payments arrangements, then such payments may be made only if the agreement in ques- tion provides for this to be done. The National Bank may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$32 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The National Bank may sell any amount of foreign exchange for certain unspecified purposes and in justified cases. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$32 for each person over 14 for tour- ist travel abroad. Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allocations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against payment in dinars. The National Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel in amoun ts exceeding the equivalent of US$32. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, from specific annual a l loca t ions); when such exchange is not available, pay- ments for invisibles that have not been liberalized are subject to the approval of the National Bank. Not more than Din 100, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange with- out declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market, including copper and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons ,and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global approva l). Permission to export to bilat- eral countries may be made conditional on an under- taking to import from such countries. In accordance with bilateral arrangements, Yugoslavia restrains exports of certain commodities to France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, and the United States. 482 Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surren- der of these proceeds is not required. The full export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; all convertible currencies may be credited to one account, but separate accounts must be established for each bilateral currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Reten- tion quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist indus- tries or are engaged in setting up trade fairs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liber- alized raw materials and cannot earn interest. The reten- tion quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with authorized banks. The permitted retention rates vary according to the type of export concerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic organization concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past year; the basic rate is 7 per cent but for many economic organizations the actually permitted rate is much higher, the other fixed rates being 10, 12, 20, 50, 60, and 100 per cent and the rate for most organizations being on a sliding scale. In some instances (foreign tourist services, sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank ), sales against pay- ment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable but need not be surrendered in full. Various retention quota rates apply to receipts from services. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization con- cerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooper- ating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while employed abroad, depos- ited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "savings book," may w i thdraw their balances in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings f rom per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, and from royalties. They may also be credited with the full amount of foreign exchange accruing from inheritances, indemnities, insurance, and similar compensations up to an amount equivalent to Din 100,000 per transaction; for amounts in excess of this figure, 30 per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of the account and 70 per cent must be surren- dered. In respect of pensions, disabled persons' allow- ances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, up to 30 per cent of the total amount received may be placed to the credit of a foreign exchange account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family; they are not transfera- ble to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by authorized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in foreign exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption from turn- over taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 200 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent de- nominations in old dinar notes, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fully authorized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quotas, or their foreign exchange amortization allocations, Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank. Such loans must ordinarily be repaid with currency obtained by the economic organization as export retention quo- tas and foreign exchange amortization allocations. All other transfers of a capital nature by residents or non- residents require individual licenses. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations through joint ventures; such foreign investment is linv ited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. The for- eign partner in a joint venture must either reinvest or deposit in a Yugoslav bank 20 per cent of its annual profits. Profit transfers abroad may be financed from the retention quota, and in addition profit transfers are per- mitted up to one third of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Foreign equity participation in Yugoslav firms is not YUGOSLAVIA to establish permitted. Foreign firms are permitted representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income of Yugoslav economic orga- nizations earned abroad is subject neither to repatria- t ion nor to su r render requirements. Residents are obliged, however, to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, to su r render all fore ign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved, but eco- nomic organ iza t ions participating in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to ex- port the necessary capital. A decision of the Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to cit- izens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years f rom the date of distri- bu t ion of the estate. Gold The National Bank has issued certain commemorative gold coins, which are not legal tender. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may only be sold to the National Bank of Yugo- slavia, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jew- elry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the Din 12.50 per U. S. dollar rate to a price of US$35 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each individually. Changes during 1970 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Tunisia was terminated. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the Khmer Republic was terminated. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ghana was terminated. The National Bank of Yugo- slavia and the Bank of Ghana concluded a banking arrangement which went into effect on March 1, 1970. The two banks opened in each other's names accounts 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA denominated in U. S. dollars and granted each other a reciprocal line of credit. January 1. All settlements with Spain henceforth took place in convertible currencies. January 2. Foreign partners in joint enterprises were permitted to transfer abroad profits up to one third of the foreign currency export earnings of the joint enter- prise, subject to the provisions of the law on foreign investment. Formerly such remittances could only be made out of retention quotas. January 23. The amount in Yugoslav banknotes that could be brought in by travelers was raised from Din 100 to Din 200. The amount in Yugoslav bank- notes that could be taken out by travelers was raised from Din 50 to Din 100. April 15. The bilateral payments agreement with Israel was terminated. May 1. A trade agreement between Yugoslavia and the EEC went into effect. June 1. Interest rates on foreign currency deposits were raised from 4 per cent to 5l/2 per cent per annum for sight deposits and time deposits up to one year, and from 6 per cent to 7 per cent per annum for time deposits over one year. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was terminated. July 17. Import tar iff quotas, whereby specified amounts of certain goods could be imported at a rate of customs duty lower than the rate normally applica- ble, were established for certain raw materials and cer- tain film, radio, and television equipment. July 19. An import surcharge of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports was introduced for the period up to June 30, 1971. All duty-free imports (mainly certain raw materials) were exempt. July 31. Authorized banks were free ly permitted to export gold coins; previously they required licenses issued by the National Bank. Sales of gold to the National Bank by producers con t inued to be made against payment in dinars by applying the Din 12.50 per U. S. dollar rate to a price of US$35 an ounce, but the price applicable to other domestic sales of new ly mined gold henceforth was the average free market price abroad. September 4. Imports of grape juice and certain alco- holic beverages required import licenses, while films for the graphic industry could be imported freely. Imports of certain synthetic fibers, retort coal, rubber boats, and pneuma t ic rubber mattresses no longer required 484 issued by the special import licenses (accordances) Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. October 1. The bilateral payments arrangements with Brazil were revised. The swing credit was increased from US$2 million to US$6 million. Special provisions were agreed concerning settlement in convertible cur- rencies of overdrafts in excess of the swing ceilings. October 16. Certain foodstuffs such as corn and oil seeds, and animal fodder were transferred from the LB list to the D list. October 28. An advance import deposit requirement was introduced (additional to the requirement of a d inar deposit equal in value to the import order). The rate of deposit was 50 per cent of the import payment. Import payments for certain raw materials, fuels, and foodstuffs, as well as payments for imports from certain developing countries, were exempt. December 1. The rate of the advance import deposit requirement introduced on October 28 was lowered to 30 per cent. December 25. Certain artificial fibers were shifted f rom the DK* list to the DK list. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1971: January 1. The import-export linking arrangements were reduced substantially for the textile, metal-work- ing, and electrical industries, while they remained un- changed for the shipbuilding industry. January 1. The LBO and the LBO* lists, were abol- ished, and most of the products on these lists were transferred to the LB list. At the same time, all other "one asterisk" import requirements were eliminated. Previously, certain LBO and RK items had been marked with an asterisk to indicate that the allo- cation of exchange was conditional on prior agreement between importers and domestic producers of the same or similar commodities concerning the method of im- portation, the volume of imports under trade agree- ments, etc. The LBO list had comprised goods whose importation was conditionally liberalized; they were lib- eralized for import from convertible currency countries provided that certain imports also took place from bi- lateral countries. January 1. The interest rate on foreign currency time deposits of over one year was raised from 7 per cent to 71/1> per cent per annum. January 1. The rate of the advance import deposit requ irement was reduced to 20 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha or K 1 = US$1.40. The Bank of Zam- bia ( the central bank) maintains a fixed buying and selling rate for sterling. The authorized banks base their rates for other currencies on this fixed rate for sterling and the current London market rates for the currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and main- tains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian currency, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, includ- ing payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regu- lations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. All permit- ted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account-Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U. S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhode- sia must be received in U. S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Sched- uled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency, with authorized payments by residents, and with transfers from other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be t rans fe r red to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to author- ized banks. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhode- sian currency from authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, pro- vided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account bal- ances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few items listed in the first schedule of the open general license for imports do not require individual licenses, nor do any other goods, provided that the per- son importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any one month. The goods included in the second schedule of the open general license are clothing and uniforms of a military type and secondhand clothing, gold, bags made of jute fiber, sugar, wheat flour, flick knives, accounting machines for ster- ling accounts, explosives, cement, fishing nets, twines, threads, yarns, bricks, certain radios and radiograms for domestic use, some cups, saucers, and plates, cheap blankets, matches, motor vehicles with four-wheel drive, some footwear, crown corks and stoppers, rubber tires and tubes, gasoline, aviation turbine fuel, paraffin for illumination, automotive gas oil, and earthenware pipes. For these goods, licenses are generally restricted. The goods included in the first schedule are certain oil prod- ucts, personal and household effects, samples, and diplo- matic shipments. Individual licenses for goods not included in either schedule are issued freely. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Import licensing aims in part at containing imports from Rhodesia and lessening reliance on the Rhodesian transport routes. With a view to promoting alternative transport routes bypassing Rhodesia, certain goods are required to be imported via Dar es Salaam. This entails restriction of imports of these goods from South Africa, as goods of South African origin cannot be discharged in Dar es Salaam. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresi- dent account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zambia; special arrangements are in force, however, for payments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for w i th in six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of K 900 for each period of two calendar years, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of K 450 for two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Appli- cations for amounts exceeding the limits may in certain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to resi- dents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable and that these services cannot be provided domestically.1 Profits and dividends may be transferred abroad in full.2 The remittance of depreciation allow- ances is not permitted. Foreign nationals employed by mining companies are allowed to remit to their country 1 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 2 An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount sought to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations af ter full provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. 486 of domicile 50 per cent of their annual earnings on their first contracts and one third of earnings on second and subsequent contracts, except employees of copper com- panies, who are allowed a 50 per cent all-round remit- tance facility. Other foreign nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years are permitted without prior approval to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling Area countries and Rhodesia if they were recruited outside Zambia and one third if recruited in Zambia; applications for remittances to other countries are usually approved, provided that the appli- cant is normally resident outside the Sterling Area. These remittance facilities are available also to expatriates serving on pensionable terms of service or on contract after conversion from pensionable terms. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, educa- tion, maintenance, etc. To facilitate small payments, individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to K 20 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities. Travelers may not take out more than K 10 in Zambian currency and the equivalent of K 20 in for- eign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license; metals, however, are exported under general agreements with the mining companies. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as imple- ments of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of ship- ment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except for travel- ers from the Democratic Republic of Congo, there is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers. The import of Zambian currency is limited to K 10 for each traveler. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution when they have satisfied the authorities that the origi- nal investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securi- ties the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over allowed K 16,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 10,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 8,000 on departure, together with K 500 for each child, up to a maximum of K 10,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 6,000, together with K 500 for each child, up to a maximum of K 8,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, and subsequent annual t rans fe rs of K 3,000. Persons who have been employed on a contract basis and whose length of continuous res- idence has not exceeded five years are allowed to remit all their savings to their new country of residence. Per- sons who have been residents for longer than five years are normally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zambia; in addition to their emigration al- lowance, they may remit gratuities, compensation pay- ments, and terminal benefits. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zam- bia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or ZAMBIA acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for ref in ing and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1970 March 10. The restriction on remittances of profits and dividends, which had been introduced in April 1968 and relaxed in August 1969, was removed in respect of accoun t ing years commenc ing on or a f t er April 1, 1970. May 19. The restrictions on remittances of earnings by foreign na t iona ls were relaxed. All expatriate em- ployees of copper companies were allowed to remit to their coun try of domicile 50 per cent of their annual earnings, regardless of whether they had been recruited from abroad or in Zambia. Previously, those recruited in Zambia were permitted to remit only one third of their annual income. May 19. Pensionable employees of mining companies were allowed to remit pension contributions to their pension funds in the United Kingdom, provided that such remittances were set off against the personal remittance allowance of 50 per cent of annual earnings. July 24. Imports of new clothing required a specific license and this item was added to the second schedule of the open general license for imports. November-December. Certain reforms were an- nounced aimed at increasing the participation of Zambians in specified types of business, including bank- ing, insurance, and building societies. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at date of § £ S a S g 8- tf * g I fl I _ o :§ S | ° I d tf tf -« . ,s 1 8 « i ^ I j O O u PS C r J ^ u S S j i l l l l l l l ii f 1 I l l t ^ il 1 ii ! e i S o J a J a J ^ J S ^ OO o O >. < « < < . < « < « « « « « «« Q U U U U O O U .U ( § UU - - x x x ~ x x - - -- - x - - - - - - - - x- -xx xx x - x x x x x x x x - x, x x - - - - - x - x x x - x x x x x x - x - x - x x x x - xx x - - x x - x - x - x x - - - x - - x - x - xx - _ - - - x ; - - - - - - x - - - x - - - - x -- _ _ _ _ _ ~ _ _ _ _ _ _ -x- - _ _ - _ _ _ -_ _ _x_ _x_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - 1. Article VIII status 2. Article X IV status 3. Agreed p ar value exists 4. P ar value applied 5. Un i tary effective rate, not par value ( a) f i x ed rate ( b) free ly f l u c t u a t i ng rate ( c) pegged rate - - - - - -- -- - x - - x - x x - - x- - x x - - x x - x - x - - o x x x x- xx x x xx x x- x 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) x x - - - - - - - x - - - - x x - - - x - - 8. More than o ne rate f or imports Xx - - - - - - - - - - -~ x x - - - x - - -- 9. More than o ne rate f or exports x- - - - - - - - x - - - - - x - - - x - - -- 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 8 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions a -4 1 2. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges 1 6. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area » 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation « x x - - x - x x - x - - - - - x x - - x - x xx - - - - - - - x - x - - - - - - - - x x - - x- x - x - - - - - - - - x - - - - - x x x - - -- x x x x - x - x x x x x x - x x , x x x x x x xx - x - x - x - - x - - - x - x x x - - - - x -x - x x x x x - x x x x x x x x -x x x x x x x - x x x x x x x x -x - x x x x x x x x - x x - x - x x - x x x x- - x x x x x - x x x x xx x - x- x x - - x - x -- x x - - x - - - - - - - - For key and footnotes, see page 495. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Countries' Restrictive Systems l country survey) 2 I03Q x, - v X X X X - - X X •a03 X X _ X X X - - X X D o m i n a c n i R e b u p i l c - x X X x - X - X - (H 0 a X X _ X X X X X X X E l S a l v a o d r x X X X X - X X X X E u q a t o r i a l G u i a e n = - x X X - - - X - 1 M x x X x x X - - - X - G 1 X X X X X X X - - X X ^ r e c n a x X X X X X - - - X X 1 X - X X X - - - X X e h P G a m b i a x X X X X X - - - x - G e r m y n a , F d e . R p e . o f x x X _ = - - - ___ X i X X X X X X * X X - X X 8 X X X X X X X - X x X G a u t e m a l a x X X X X X - X X X X G u i a e n x - X, X X X X - X X §03 n X ". X X X X X - X - X X X X X X X - X - ___ - H u d n o r s a X X X _ = - X - ___ X l g n o K g n o X X x x X _ X - - - --. - J<l>o X X X X X X X - - X X 03 1 X X X x X X x - - X - n o d n e s i a x - X _ X - X X x X 1 X, X X X X X X - X X X 0" 2 * X X X X X X X - X X a 03"2 X X X _ X X - - - X X X X X X X X X X X ___ - ** X X X _ X X - - - X X o v r y C o a s t x - X X X - - - X X a J m a i a c X X X . X X - - - X X 03 X X X _ X X - - - X - d 03 •2o X X X X X X X - X - X X 03 0> X X X X X X - - - X X 2 3 4 5 (&) ... (u) . . (V) 6 7 10 11 13 14 15 16 17 10 19 For key and footnotes, see page 495. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— Principal Features of Member (as at date of . « £ cL ;rj S3 1 3 1 1 1 "5 - « .2 | | 1 « § 2 * 1 1 -g 1 1 1 o | 1 1 1 | < B « J '3 2 •£ -2 * bo £ >> S< l> S < » 3 " o f e > > « i < 2 c 3 - c s - C ' C0^ " ^ ^ ^ ^3^^ '1± 2 ~ ~ ' 3 8 S -c= - £ > . e 3 a5 - S g 5 o ^ | . gr§ l 3 ' 3> >3 1 3 ' * S o 3 a 5 o g ' * £ - S l . 2 . £) S w w J S j j a ^ S S S a S S S S S f c & S z F f c f c fc 1. Article VIII status - - x - - - - - - - x - - - - x. - - x x - x- 2. Article XIV status x x - x x x x x x x. - x x; x x - x x - - x - x 3. Agreed p ar value exists - - x - x x x x - x x - x - x x x x x x x x- 4. P ar value applied - - x ~ - x x x - x x - x - x x x x x x x x- 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value ( a) fixed rate ( b) freely f l u c t u a t i ng rate x - - - - - - - x - - x - x - - - - - - - -x _x_ _x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ( c) pegged rate _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or a ll invisibles - - x x - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - - -- 7. Import rate(s) d ifferent from export rate(s) - _x x- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x- 8. More than o ne rate f or imports - - x x- - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - -- - - - x - - - - - - - - - -~ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 9. More than o ne rate f or exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3-4 X X . - - - O - X X X - X X X X - X X - - X -X x x - - - x - x x, x x» x x. x x - x x x - x - x 1 2. Prescription of currency x x x - - x - x x x x x x x x - x x x - x -x 13. Bilateral pavments arrange- ments with members - - - - x, - - - - - - x - - - x x x - - -- x 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers x - - x x - - - - - - x - - - x x x x - - -- 1 5. Import surcharges 1 6. Advance import deposits x x - _x_x_ _ - x - _ _ _ - x - x x - _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ - _ - _ - _ - x - _ _ __ - - x- 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area x x - x - x - x x x x xx x x . - x x - x x -x fi - - x - - x - x x x x x x x x - x - - - x -x 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 - - x - - x x - x - x x - x - x - - x x x xx For key and footnotes, see page 495. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Countries9 Restrictive Systems 1 country survey) 2 a I & 1" 1 H J f l J l l i l f l i L j l l l i ll j f t l i i li ; ! ? ° l 3 § r t f e ^ o J 5 i g . S > . S o oiQ , : 3 3 £ £ f e S ^ o » - e 3 : 3 b c f l f l e p< ^ ^ C ^ C i H P ^ P H O H ^ r t Q Q G Q M C C Q C Q Q ' a Q Q M C C Q Q C J Q H H H H H H P P P t) t> - X - X - X - - - X - - X - - - - X - X - - - - - - - - - X X- 1 x - x - x - x x x - x x - x x x x - x - x * x x x x x x x - x x x x x x x x x x - x x x x x x x x x x x x - x x x x x x -x x- 2 3 x x x x - - - x x x - x x x x x x x | x x - x x - x x x x - x x- 4 5 - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - - - x ( a) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- ( b) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' - - - - - - - - - - - - -- ( c) 6 - - x - - x - - - - - - - - - - x - - - x - - - - - - - x x -- 7 - - - x - x x x - - x - - x - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x - - x - - - - - - - - x - x - - - - x - -- -- 8 - - x - - - x - - - - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - x - x - -- 9 10 x - x - x x x x x - x x - x x x x - o - x x - x - x x x x x -x 11 x x x - x x x x x ^ - x x x x x x x x i x x x x x x x x x x x x -x x x x - x x x x x - x x x x x x x x x x x x - x x x x x x x - x !2 13 x - x - x - - x - - x x - x - x x - - - x - - - - x x - x - -- 14 - x x - - x - x - - - - x x - x x x - x x - - - - x x - x - -- x - x x x x - - - - - x - - - - - - - - x - - - - - - x - - x x - - - - x - - - - - - - - - x x - x - - - x - - - - - - 15 - 16 - - - 17 x x x - x x x x x - x x x x x x x x x - x x x ' x x x x x x x -x x - x - - - - - - - x x x - x - - - x - - x - x x x - x - x - x !8 19 x x x - x x x x x - x x x x x - -x x x x x x x x - x x x x -x For key and footnotes, see page 495. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems 1 (as at date of country survey) 2 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Unitary effective rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) freely fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions * 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3>4 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 5 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 6 £ & 1 X X _ X - X X X X X X X X X V e n z e u e l a x X _ X X X X - X - X X V i e t - N a m X X X X X X, X X = X X X 11<! ao> 8 £ X = _ - X - - X X :. X X == X X —1 X - X as, I a, 4a » <u X = _ - X - - - X X = X - -r-= — - X X - Y o g u s l a v i a 7 X : X X _ - - - - X X ; X X X = X X = Z a m b i a X X X _ - - X X X X X Key and Footnotes X indicates that practice exists; — indicates that practice does not exist; and O indicates that position is undetermined. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transac- tions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1970. Where the date is a different one, this is indicated in a footnote. 8 Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 4 Resident-owned funds. 5 Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area. 8 Membership in, or association with, African and Malagasy Common Or- ganization, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, Arab Common Market, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Caribbean Free Trade Association, Central African Customs and Economic Union, Central American Common Market, Customs Union of West African States, East African Community, European Economic Community, Euro- pean Free Trade Association, Latin American Free Trade Association, Mozambique Convention, Organization of Senegal River States, Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey), West African Economic Community, or the Customs Union between Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. 7 As of January 1, 1971. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — — — — — — — 